Title: Reinforcement Learning based Control of Imitative Policies for Near-Accident Driving
Abstract:  Autonomous driving has achieved significant progress in recent years, but autonomous cars are still unable to tackle high-risk situations where a potential accident is likely. In such near-accident scenarios, even a minor change in the vehicle's actions may result in drastically different consequences. To avoid unsafe actions in near-accident scenarios, we need to fully explore the environment. However, reinforcement learning (RL) and imitation learning (IL), two widely-used policy learning methods, cannot model rapid phase transitions and are not scalable to fully cover all the states. To address driving in near-accident scenarios, we propose a hierarchical reinforcement and imitation learning (H-ReIL) approach that consists of low-level policies learned by IL for discrete driving modes, and a high-level policy learned by RL that switches between different driving modes. Our approach exploits the advantages of both IL and RL by integrating them into a unified learning framework. Experimental results and user studies suggest our approach can achieve higher efficiency and safety compared to other methods. Analyses of the policies demonstrate our high-level policy appropriately switches between different low-level policies in near-accident driving situations. 

Title: Accurate Vision-based Vehicle Localization using Satellite Imagery
Abstract:  We propose a method for accurately localizing ground vehicles with the aid of satellite imagery. Our approach takes a ground image as input, and outputs the location from which it was taken on a georeferenced satellite image. We perform visual localization by estimating the co-occurrence probabilities between the ground and satellite images based on a ground-satellite feature dictionary. The method is able to estimate likelihoods over arbitrary locations without the need for a dense ground image database. We present a ranking-loss based algorithm that learns location-discriminative feature projection matrices that result in further improvements in accuracy. We evaluate our method on the Malaga and KITTI public datasets and demonstrate significant improvements over a baseline that performs exhaustive search. 

Title: L2B: Learning to Balance the Safety-Efficiency Trade-off in Interactive Crowd-aware Robot Navigation
Abstract:  This work presents a deep reinforcement learning framework for interactive navigation in a crowded place. Our proposed approach, Learning to Balance (L2B) framework enables mobile robot agents to steer safely towards their destinations by avoiding collisions with a crowd, while actively clearing a path by asking nearby pedestrians to make room, if necessary, to keep their travel efficient. We observe that the safety and efficiency requirements in crowd-aware navigation have a trade-off in the presence of social dilemmas between the agent and the crowd. On the one hand, intervening in pedestrian paths too much to achieve instant efficiency will result in collapsing a natural crowd flow and may eventually put everyone, including the self, at risk of collisions. On the other hand, keeping in silence to avoid every single collision will lead to the agent's inefficient travel. With this observation, our L2B framework augments the reward function used in learning an interactive navigation policy to penalize frequent active path clearing and passive collision avoidance, which substantially improves the balance of the safety-efficiency trade-off. We evaluate our L2B framework in a challenging crowd simulation and demonstrate its superiority, in terms of both navigation success and collision rate, over a state-of-the-art navigation approach. 

Title: Investigating the performance of Correspondence Algorithms in Vision based Driver-assistance in Indoor Environment
Abstract:  This paper presents the experimental comparison of fourteen stereo matching algorithms in variant illumination conditions. Different adaptations of global and local stereo matching techniques are chosen for evaluation The variant strength and weakness of the chosen correspondence algorithms are explored by employing the methodology of the prediction error strategy. The algorithms are gauged on the basis of their performance on real world data set taken in various indoor lighting conditions and at different times of the day 

Title: Control What You Can: Intrinsically Motivated Task-Planning Agent
Abstract:  We present a novel intrinsically motivated agent that learns how to control the environment in the fastest possible manner by optimizing learning progress. It learns what can be controlled, how to allocate time and attention, and the relations between objects using surprise based motivation. The effectiveness of our method is demonstrated in a synthetic as well as a robotic manipulation environment yielding considerably improved performance and smaller sample complexity. In a nutshell, our work combines several task-level planning agent structures (backtracking search on task graph, probabilistic road-maps, allocation of search efforts) with intrinsic motivation to achieve learning from scratch. 

Title: Autonomous Exploration Under Uncertainty via Deep Reinforcement Learning on Graphs
Abstract:  We consider an autonomous exploration problem in which a range-sensing mobile robot is tasked with accurately mapping the landmarks in an a priori unknown environment efficiently in real-time; it must choose sensing actions that both curb localization uncertainty and achieve information gain. For this problem, belief space planning methods that forward-simulate robot sensing and estimation may often fail in real-time implementation, scaling poorly with increasing size of the state, belief and action spaces. We propose a novel approach that uses graph neural networks (GNNs) in conjunction with deep reinforcement learning (DRL), enabling decision-making over graphs containing exploration information to predict a robot's optimal sensing action in belief space. The policy, which is trained in different random environments without human intervention, offers a real-time, scalable decision-making process whose high-performance exploratory sensing actions yield accurate maps and high rates of information gain. 

Title: Reflection methods for user-friendly submodular optimization
Abstract:  Recently, it has become evident that submodularity naturally captures widely occurring concepts in machine learning, signal processing and computer vision. Consequently, there is need for efficient optimization procedures for submodular functions, especially for minimization problems. While general submodular minimization is challenging, we propose a new method that exploits existing decomposability of submodular functions. In contrast to previous approaches, our method is neither approximate, nor impractical, nor does it need any cumbersome parameter tuning. Moreover, it is easy to implement and parallelize. A key component of our method is a formulation of the discrete submodular minimization problem as a continuous best approximation problem that is solved through a sequence of reflections, and its solution can be easily thresholded to obtain an optimal discrete solution. This method solves both the continuous and discrete formulations of the problem, and therefore has applications in learning, inference, and reconstruction. In our experiments, we illustrate the benefits of our method on two image segmentation tasks. 

Title: Feature Fusion using Extended Jaccard Graph and Stochastic Gradient Descent for Robot
Abstract:  Robot vision is a fundamental device for human-robot interaction and robot complex tasks. In this paper, we use Kinect and propose a feature graph fusion (FGF) for robot recognition. Our feature fusion utilizes RGB and depth information to construct fused feature from Kinect. FGF involves multi-Jaccard similarity to compute a robust graph and utilize word embedding method to enhance the recognition results. We also collect DUT RGB-D face dataset and a benchmark datset to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of our method. The experimental results illustrate FGF is robust and effective to face and object datasets in robot applications. 

Title: Extraction and Assessment of Naturalistic Human Driving Trajectories from Infrastructure Camera and Radar Sensors
Abstract:  Collecting realistic driving trajectories is crucial for training machine learning models that imitate human driving behavior. Most of today's autonomous driving datasets contain only a few trajectories per location and are recorded with test vehicles that are cautiously driven by trained drivers. In particular in interactive scenarios such as highway merges, the test driver's behavior significantly influences other vehicles. This influence prevents recording the whole traffic space of human driving behavior. In this work, we present a novel methodology to extract trajectories of traffic objects using infrastructure sensors. Infrastructure sensors allow us to record a lot of data for one location and take the test drivers out of the loop. We develop both a hardware setup consisting of a camera and a traffic surveillance radar and a trajectory extraction algorithm. Our vision pipeline accurately detects objects, fuses camera and radar detections and tracks them over time. We improve a state-of-the-art object tracker by combining the tracking in image coordinates with a Kalman filter in road coordinates. We show that our sensor fusion approach successfully combines the advantages of camera and radar detections and outperforms either single sensor. Finally, we also evaluate the accuracy of our trajectory extraction pipeline. For that, we equip our test vehicle with a differential GPS sensor and use it to collect ground truth trajectories. With this data we compute the measurement errors. While we use the mean error to de-bias the trajectories, the error standard deviation is in the magnitude of the ground truth data inaccuracy. Hence, the extracted trajectories are not only naturalistic but also highly accurate and prove the potential of using infrastructure sensors to extract real-world trajectories. 

Title: Reflective-AR Display: An Interaction Methodology for Virtual-Real Alignment in Medical Robotics
Abstract:  Robot-assisted minimally invasive surgery has shown to improve patient outcomes, as well as reduce complications and recovery time for several clinical applications. While increasingly configurable robotic arms can maximize reach and avoid collisions in cluttered environments, positioning them appropriately during surgery is complicated because safety regulations prevent automatic driving. We propose a head-mounted display (HMD) based augmented reality (AR) system designed to guide optimal surgical arm set up. The staff equipped with HMD aligns the robot with its planned virtual counterpart. In this user-centric setting, the main challenge is the perspective ambiguities hindering such collaborative robotic solution. To overcome this challenge, we introduce a novel registration concept for intuitive alignment of AR content to its physical counterpart by providing a multi-view AR experience via reflective-AR displays that simultaneously show the augmentations from multiple viewpoints. Using this system, users can visualize different perspectives while actively adjusting the pose to determine the registration transformation that most closely superimposes the virtual onto the real. The experimental results demonstrate improvement in the interactive alignment of a virtual and real robot when using a reflective-AR display. We also present measurements from configuring a robotic manipulator in a simulated trocar placement surgery using the AR guidance methodology. 

Title: Maximum Likelihood Methods for Inverse Learning of Optimal Controllers
Abstract:  This paper presents a framework for inverse learning of objective functions for constrained optimal control problems, which is based on the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) conditions. We discuss three variants corresponding to different model assumptions and computational complexities. The first method uses a convex relaxation of the KKT conditions and serves as the benchmark. The main contribution of this paper is the proposition of two learning methods that combine the KKT conditions with maximum likelihood estimation. The key benefit of this combination is the systematic treatment of constraints for learning from noisy data with a branch-and-bound algorithm using likelihood arguments. This paper discusses theoretic properties of the learning methods and presents simulation results that highlight the advantages of using the maximum likelihood formulation for learning objective functions. 

Title: Gated-Attention Architectures for Task-Oriented Language Grounding
Abstract:  To perform tasks specified by natural language instructions, autonomous agents need to extract semantically meaningful representations of language and map it to visual elements and actions in the environment. This problem is called task-oriented language grounding. We propose an end-to-end trainable neural architecture for task-oriented language grounding in 3D environments which assumes no prior linguistic or perceptual knowledge and requires only raw pixels from the environment and the natural language instruction as input. The proposed model combines the image and text representations using a Gated-Attention mechanism and learns a policy to execute the natural language instruction using standard reinforcement and imitation learning methods. We show the effectiveness of the proposed model on unseen instructions as well as unseen maps, both quantitatively and qualitatively. We also introduce a novel environment based on a 3D game engine to simulate the challenges of task-oriented language grounding over a rich set of instructions and environment states. 

Title: Simultaneous Localization, Mapping, and Manipulation for Unsupervised Object Discovery
Abstract:  We present an unsupervised framework for simultaneous appearance-based object discovery, detection, tracking and reconstruction using RGBD cameras and a robot manipulator. The system performs dense 3D simultaneous localization and mapping concurrently with unsupervised object discovery. Putative objects that are spatially and visually coherent are manipulated by the robot to gain additional motion-cues. The robot uses appearance alone, followed by structure and motion cues, to jointly discover, verify, learn and improve models of objects. Induced motion segmentation reinforces learned models which are represented implicitly as 2D and 3D level sets to capture both shape and appearance. We compare three different approaches for appearance-based object discovery and find that a novel form of spatio-temporal super-pixels gives the highest quality candidate object models in terms of precision and recall. Live experiments with a Baxter robot demonstrate a holistic pipeline capable of automatic discovery, verification, detection, tracking and reconstruction of unknown objects. 

Title: Detecting Unexpected Obstacles for Self-Driving Cars: Fusing Deep Learning and Geometric Modeling
Abstract:  The detection of small road hazards, such as lost cargo, is a vital capability for self-driving cars. We tackle this challenging and rarely addressed problem with a vision system that leverages appearance, contextual as well as geometric cues. To utilize the appearance and contextual cues, we propose a new deep learning-based obstacle detection framework. Here a variant of a fully convolutional network is used to predict a pixel-wise semantic labeling of (i) free-space, (ii) on-road unexpected obstacles, and (iii) background. The geometric cues are exploited using a state-of-the-art detection approach that predicts obstacles from stereo input images via model-based statistical hypothesis tests. We present a principled Bayesian framework to fuse the semantic and stereo-based detection results. The mid-level Stixel representation is used to describe obstacles in a flexible, compact and robust manner. We evaluate our new obstacle detection system on the Lost and Found dataset, which includes very challenging scenes with obstacles of only 5 cm height. Overall, we report a major improvement over the state-of-the-art, with relative performance gains of up to 50%. In particular, we achieve a detection rate of over 90% for distances of up to 50 m. Our system operates at 22 Hz on our self-driving platform. 

Title: Oriented Point Sampling for Plane Detection in Unorganized Point Clouds
Abstract:  Plane detection in 3D point clouds is a crucial pre-processing step for applications such as point cloud segmentation, semantic mapping and SLAM. In contrast to many recent plane detection methods that are only applicable on organized point clouds, our work is targeted to unorganized point clouds that do not permit a 2D parametrization. We compare three methods for detecting planes in point clouds efficiently. One is a novel method proposed in this paper that generates plane hypotheses by sampling from a set of points with estimated normals. We named this method Oriented Point Sampling (OPS) to contrast with more conventional techniques that require the sampling of three unoriented points to generate plane hypotheses. We also implemented an efficient plane detection method based on local sampling of three unoriented points and compared it with OPS and the 3D-KHT algorithm, which is based on octrees, on the detection of planes on 10,000 point clouds from the SUN RGB-D dataset. 

Title: Dimensionality Reduction of Movement Primitives in Parameter Space
Abstract:  Movement primitives are an important policy class for real-world robotics. However, the high dimensionality of their parametrization makes the policy optimization expensive both in terms of samples and computation. Enabling an efficient representation of movement primitives facilitates the application of machine learning techniques such as reinforcement on robotics. Motions, especially in highly redundant kinematic structures, exhibit high correlation in the configuration space. For these reasons, prior work has mainly focused on the application of dimensionality reduction techniques in the configuration space. In this paper, we investigate the application of dimensionality reduction in the parameter space, identifying principal movements. The resulting approach is enriched with a probabilistic treatment of the parameters, inheriting all the properties of the Probabilistic Movement Primitives. We test the proposed technique both on a real robotic task and on a database of complex human movements. The empirical analysis shows that the dimensionality reduction in parameter space is more effective than in configuration space, as it enables the representation of the movements with a significant reduction of parameters. 

Title: A Systematic Comparison of Deep Learning Architectures in an Autonomous Vehicle
Abstract:  Self-driving technology is advancing rapidly --- albeit with significant challenges and limitations. This progress is largely due to recent developments in deep learning algorithms. To date, however, there has been no systematic comparison of how different deep learning architectures perform at such tasks, or an attempt to determine a correlation between classification performance and performance in an actual vehicle, a potentially critical factor in developing self-driving systems. Here, we introduce the first controlled comparison of multiple deep-learning architectures in an end-to-end autonomous driving task across multiple testing conditions. We compared performance, under identical driving conditions, across seven architectures including a fully-connected network, a simple 2 layer CNN, AlexNet, VGG-16, Inception-V3, ResNet, and an LSTM by assessing the number of laps each model was able to successfully complete without crashing while traversing an indoor racetrack. We compared performance across models when the conditions exactly matched those in training as well as when the local environment and track were configured differently and objects that were not included in the training dataset were placed on the track in various positions. In addition, we considered performance using several different data types for training and testing including single grayscale and color frames, and multiple grayscale frames stacked together in sequence. With the exception of a fully-connected network, all models performed reasonably well (around or above 80\%) and most very well (~95\%) on at least one input type but with considerable variation across models and inputs. Overall, AlexNet, operating on single color frames as input, achieved the best level of performance (100\% success rate in phase one and 55\% in phase two) while VGG-16 performed well most consistently across image types. 

Title: DeepURL: Deep Pose Estimation Framework for Underwater Relative Localization
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a real-time deep-learning approach for determining the 6D relative pose of Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUV) from a single image. A team of autonomous robots localizing themselves, in a communication-constrained underwater environment, is essential for many applications such as underwater exploration, mapping, multi-robot convoying, and other multi-robot tasks. Due to the profound difficulty of collecting ground truth images with accurate 6D poses underwater, this work utilizes rendered images from the Unreal Game Engine simulation for training. An image translation network is employed to bridge the gap between the rendered and the real images producing synthetic images for training. The proposed method predicts the 6D pose of an AUV from a single image as 2D image keypoints representing 8 corners of the 3D model of the AUV, and then the 6D pose in the camera coordinates is determined using RANSAC-based PnP. Experimental results in underwater environments (swimming pool and ocean) with different cameras demonstrate the robustness of the proposed technique, where the trained system decreased translation error by 75.5% and orientation error by 64.6% over the state-of-the-art methods. 

Title: Perceptual Attention-based Predictive Control
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a novel information processing architecture for safe deep learning-based visual navigation of autonomous systems. The proposed information processing architecture is used to support a perceptual attention-based predictive control algorithm that leverages model predictive control (MPC), convolutional neural networks (CNNs), and uncertainty quantification methods. The novelty of our approach lies in using MPC to learn how to place attention on relevant areas of the visual input, which ultimately allows the system to more rapidly detect unsafe conditions. We accomplish this by using MPC to learn to select regions of interest in the input image, which are used to output control actions as well as estimates of epistemic and aleatoric uncertainty in the attention-aware visual input. We use these uncertainty estimates to quantify the safety of our network controller under the current navigation condition. The proposed architecture and algorithm is tested on a 1:5 scale terrestrial vehicle. Experimental results show that the proposed algorithm outperforms previous approaches on early detection of unsafe conditions, such as when novel obstacles are present in the navigation environment. The proposed architecture is the first step towards using deep learning-based perceptual control policies in safety-critical domains. 

Title: A Data-Efficient Deep Learning Approach for Deployable Multimodal Social Robots
Abstract:  The deep supervised and reinforcement learning paradigms (among others) have the potential to endow interactive multimodal social robots with the ability of acquiring skills autonomously. But it is still not very clear yet how they can be best deployed in real world applications. As a step in this direction, we propose a deep learning-based approach for efficiently training a humanoid robot to play multimodal games---and use the game of `Noughts & Crosses' with two variants as a case study. Its minimum requirements for learning to perceive and interact are based on a few hundred example images, a few example multimodal dialogues and physical demonstrations of robot manipulation, and automatic simulations. In addition, we propose novel algorithms for robust visual game tracking and for competitive policy learning with high winning rates, which substantially outperform DQN-based baselines. While an automatic evaluation shows evidence that the proposed approach can be easily extended to new games with competitive robot behaviours, a human evaluation with 130 humans playing with the Pepper robot confirms that highly accurate visual perception is required for successful game play. 

Title: Amortized Object and Scene Perception for Long-term Robot Manipulation
Abstract:  Mobile robots, performing long-term manipulation activities in human environments, have to perceive a wide variety of objects possessing very different visual characteristics and need to reliably keep track of these throughout the execution of a task. In order to be efficient, robot perception capabilities need to go beyond what is currently perceivable and should be able to answer queries about both current and past scenes. In this paper we investigate a perception system for long-term robot manipulation that keeps track of the changing environment and builds a representation of the perceived world. Specifically we introduce an amortized component that spreads perception tasks throughout the execution cycle. The resulting query driven perception system asynchronously integrates results from logged images into a symbolic and numeric (what we call sub-symbolic) representation that forms the perceptual belief state of the robot. 

Title: Data-Augmented Contact Model for Rigid Body Simulation
Abstract:  Accurately modeling contact behaviors for real-world, near-rigid materials remains a grand challenge for existing rigid-body physics simulators. This paper introduces a data-augmented contact model that incorporates analytical solutions with observed data to predict the 3D contact impulse which could result in rigid bodies bouncing, sliding or spinning in all directions. Our method enhances the expressiveness of the standard Coulomb contact model by learning the contact behaviors from the observed data, while preserving the fundamental contact constraints whenever possible. For example, a classifier is trained to approximate the transitions between static and dynamic frictions, while non-penetration constraint during collision is enforced analytically. Our method computes the aggregated effect of contact for the entire rigid body, instead of predicting the contact force for each contact point individually, removing the exponential decline in accuracy as the number of contact points increases. 

Title: A Geometric Perspective on Visual Imitation Learning
Abstract:  We consider the problem of visual imitation learning without human supervision (e.g. kinesthetic teaching or teleoperation), nor access to an interactive reinforcement learning (RL) training environment. We present a geometric perspective to derive solutions to this problem. Specifically, we propose VGS-IL (Visual Geometric Skill Imitation Learning), an end-to-end geometry-parameterized task concept inference method, to infer globally consistent geometric feature association rules from human demonstration video frames. We show that, instead of learning actions from image pixels, learning a geometry-parameterized task concept provides an explainable and invariant representation across demonstrator to imitator under various environmental settings. Moreover, such a task concept representation provides a direct link with geometric vision based controllers (e.g. visual servoing), allowing for efficient mapping of high-level task concepts to low-level robot actions. 

Title: Depth from Videos in the Wild: Unsupervised Monocular Depth Learning from Unknown Cameras
Abstract:  We present a novel method for simultaneous learning of depth, egomotion, object motion, and camera intrinsics from monocular videos, using only consistency across neighboring video frames as supervision signal. Similarly to prior work, our method learns by applying differentiable warping to frames and comparing the result to adjacent ones, but it provides several improvements: We address occlusions geometrically and differentiably, directly using the depth maps as predicted during training. We introduce randomized layer normalization, a novel powerful regularizer, and we account for object motion relative to the scene. To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first to learn the camera intrinsic parameters, including lens distortion, from video in an unsupervised manner, thereby allowing us to extract accurate depth and motion from arbitrary videos of unknown origin at scale. We evaluate our results on the Cityscapes, KITTI and EuRoC datasets, establishing new state of the art on depth prediction and odometry, and demonstrate qualitatively that depth prediction can be learned from a collection of YouTube videos. 

Title: Evaluating Uncertainty Estimation Methods on 3D Semantic Segmentation of Point Clouds
Abstract:  Deep learning models are extensively used in various safety critical applications. Hence these models along with being accurate need to be highly reliable. One way of achieving this is by quantifying uncertainty. Bayesian methods for UQ have been extensively studied for Deep Learning models applied on images but have been less explored for 3D modalities such as point clouds often used for Robots and Autonomous Systems. In this work, we evaluate three uncertainty quantification methods namely Deep Ensembles, MC-Dropout and MC-DropConnect on the DarkNet21Seg 3D semantic segmentation model and comprehensively analyze the impact of various parameters such as number of models in ensembles or forward passes, and drop probability values, on task performance and uncertainty estimate quality. We find that Deep Ensembles outperforms other methods in both performance and uncertainty metrics. Deep ensembles outperform other methods by a margin of 2.4% in terms of mIOU, 1.3% in terms of accuracy, while providing reliable uncertainty for decision making. 

Title: What Object Should I Use? - Task Driven Object Detection
Abstract:  When humans have to solve everyday tasks, they simply pick the objects that are most suitable. While the question which object should one use for a specific task sounds trivial for humans, it is very difficult to answer for robots or other autonomous systems. This issue, however, is not addressed by current benchmarks for object detection that focus on detecting object categories. We therefore introduce the COCO-Tasks dataset which comprises about 40,000 images where the most suitable objects for 14 tasks have been annotated. We furthermore propose an approach that detects the most suitable objects for a given task. The approach builds on a Gated Graph Neural Network to exploit the appearance of each object as well as the global context of all present objects in the scene. In our experiments, we show that the proposed approach outperforms other approaches that are evaluated on the dataset like classification or ranking approaches. 

Title: Fast Symbolic 3D Registration Solution
Abstract:  3D registration has always been performed invoking singular value decomposition (SVD) or eigenvalue decomposition (EIG) in real engineering practices. However, these numerical algorithms suffer from uncertainty of convergence in many cases. A novel fast symbolic solution is proposed in this paper by following our recent publication in this journal. The equivalence analysis shows that our previous solver can be converted to deal with the 3D registration problem. Rather, the computation procedure is studied for further simplification of computing without complex-number support. Experimental results show that the proposed solver does not loose accuracy and robustness but improves the execution speed to a large extent by almost %50 to %80, on both personal computer and embedded processor. 

Title: Real-Time Monocular Object-Model Aware Sparse SLAM
Abstract:  Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) is a fundamental problem in mobile robotics. While sparse point-based SLAM methods provide accurate camera localization, the generated maps lack semantic information. On the other hand, state of the art object detection methods provide rich information about entities present in the scene from a single image. This work incorporates a real-time deep-learned object detector to the monocular SLAM framework for representing generic objects as quadrics that permit detections to be seamlessly integrated while allowing the real-time performance. Finer reconstruction of an object, learned by a CNN network, is also incorporated and provides a shape prior for the quadric leading further refinement. To capture the dominant structure of the scene, additional planar landmarks are detected by a CNN-based plane detector and modeled as independent landmarks in the map. Extensive experiments support our proposed inclusion of semantic objects and planar structures directly in the bundle-adjustment of SLAM - Semantic SLAM - that enriches the reconstructed map semantically, while significantly improving the camera localization. The performance of our SLAM system is demonstrated in https://youtu.be/UMWXd4sHONw and https://youtu.be/QPQqVrvP0dE . 

Title: Stochastic triangular mesh mapping: A terrain mapping technique for autonomous mobile robots
Abstract:  For mobile robots to operate autonomously in general environments, perception is required in the form of a dense metric map. For this purpose, we present the stochastic triangular mesh (STM) mapping technique: a 2.5-D representation of the surface of the environment using a continuous mesh of triangular surface elements, where each surface element models the mean plane and roughness of the underlying surface. In contrast to existing mapping techniques, a STM map models the structure of the environment by ensuring a continuous model, while also being able to be incrementally updated with linear computational cost in the number of measurements. We reduce the effect of uncertainty in the robot pose (position and orientation) by using landmark-relative submaps. The uncertainty in the measurements and robot pose are accounted for by the use of Bayesian inference techniques during the map update. We demonstrate that a STM map can be used with sensors that generate point measurements, such as light detection and ranging (LiDAR) sensors and stereo cameras. We show that a STM map is a more accurate model than the only comparable online surface mapping technique$\unicode{x2014}$a standard elevation map$\unicode{x2014}$and we also provide qualitative results on practical datasets. 

Title: A General Framework for Structured Learning of Mechanical Systems
Abstract:  Learning accurate dynamics models is necessary for optimal, compliant control of robotic systems. Current approaches to white-box modeling using analytic parameterizations, or black-box modeling using neural networks, can suffer from high bias or high variance. We address the need for a flexible, gray-box model of mechanical systems that can seamlessly incorporate prior knowledge where it is available, and train expressive function approximators where it is not. We propose to parameterize a mechanical system using neural networks to model its Lagrangian and the generalized forces that act on it. We test our method on a simulated, actuated double pendulum. We show that our method outperforms a naive, black-box model in terms of data-efficiency, as well as performance in model-based reinforcement learning. We also conduct a systematic study of our method's ability to incorporate available prior knowledge about the system to improve data efficiency. 

Title: Deep Learning based Wearable Assistive System for Visually Impaired People
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a deep learning based assistive system to improve the environment perception experience of visually impaired (VI). The system is composed of a wearable terminal equipped with an RGBD camera and an earphone, a powerful processor mainly for deep learning inferences and a smart phone for touch-based interaction. A data-driven learning approach is proposed to predict safe and reliable walkable instructions using RGBD data and the established semantic map. This map is also used to help VI understand their 3D surrounding objects and layout through well-designed touchscreen interactions. The quantitative and qualitative experimental results show that our learning based obstacle avoidance approach achieves excellent results in both indoor and outdoor datasets with low-lying obstacles. Meanwhile, user studies have also been carried out in various scenarios and showed the improvement of VI's environment perception experience with our system. 

Title: Self-supervised Transfer Learning for Instance Segmentation through Physical Interaction
Abstract:  Instance segmentation of unknown objects from images is regarded as relevant for several robot skills including grasping, tracking and object sorting. Recent results in computer vision have shown that large hand-labeled datasets enable high segmentation performance. To overcome the time-consuming process of manually labeling data for new environments, we present a transfer learning approach for robots that learn to segment objects by interacting with their environment in a self-supervised manner. Our robot pushes unknown objects on a table and uses information from optical flow to create training labels in the form of object masks. To achieve this, we fine-tune an existing DeepMask network for instance segmentation on the self-labeled training data acquired by the robot. We evaluate our trained network (SelfDeepMask) on a set of real images showing challenging and cluttered scenes with novel objects. Here, SelfDeepMask outperforms the DeepMask network trained on the COCO dataset by 9.5% in average precision. Furthermore, we combine our approach with recent approaches for training with noisy labels in order to better cope with induced label noise. 

Title: RL-RRT: Kinodynamic Motion Planning via Learning Reachability Estimators from RL Policies
Abstract:  This paper addresses two challenges facing sampling-based kinodynamic motion planning: a way to identify good candidate states for local transitions and the subsequent computationally intractable steering between these candidate states. Through the combination of sampling-based planning, a Rapidly Exploring Randomized Tree (RRT) and an efficient kinodynamic motion planner through machine learning, we propose an efficient solution to long-range planning for kinodynamic motion planning. First, we use deep reinforcement learning to learn an obstacle-avoiding policy that maps a robot's sensor observations to actions, which is used as a local planner during planning and as a controller during execution. Second, we train a reachability estimator in a supervised manner, which predicts the RL policy's time to reach a state in the presence of obstacles. Lastly, we introduce RL-RRT that uses the RL policy as a local planner, and the reachability estimator as the distance function to bias tree-growth towards promising regions. We evaluate our method on three kinodynamic systems, including physical robot experiments. Results across all three robots tested indicate that RL-RRT outperforms state of the art kinodynamic planners in efficiency, and also provides a shorter path finish time than a steering function free method. The learned local planner policy and accompanying reachability estimator demonstrate transferability to the previously unseen experimental environments, making RL-RRT fast because the expensive computations are replaced with simple neural network inference. Video: https://youtu.be/dDMVMTOI8KY 

Title: Robotic Table Tennis with Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  We propose a model-free algorithm for learning efficient policies capable of returning table tennis balls by controlling robot joints at a rate of 100Hz. We demonstrate that evolutionary search (ES) methods acting on CNN-based policy architectures for non-visual inputs and convolving across time learn compact controllers leading to smooth motions. Furthermore, we show that with appropriately tuned curriculum learning on the task and rewards, policies are capable of developing multi-modal styles, specifically forehand and backhand stroke, whilst achieving 80\% return rate on a wide range of ball throws. We observe that multi-modality does not require any architectural priors, such as multi-head architectures or hierarchical policies. 

Title: Internal Model from Observations for Reward Shaping
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning methods require careful design involving a reward function to obtain the desired action policy for a given task. In the absence of hand-crafted reward functions, prior work on the topic has proposed several methods for reward estimation by using expert state trajectories and action pairs. However, there are cases where complete or good action information cannot be obtained from expert demonstrations. We propose a novel reinforcement learning method in which the agent learns an internal model of observation on the basis of expert-demonstrated state trajectories to estimate rewards without completely learning the dynamics of the external environment from state-action pairs. The internal model is obtained in the form of a predictive model for the given expert state distribution. During reinforcement learning, the agent predicts the reward as a function of the difference between the actual state and the state predicted by the internal model. We conducted multiple experiments in environments of varying complexity, including the Super Mario Bros and Flappy Bird games. We show our method successfully trains good policies directly from expert game-play videos. 

Title: Joint Anchor-Feature Refinement for Real-Time Accurate Object Detection in Images and Videos
Abstract:  Object detection has been vigorously investigated for years but fast accurate detection for real-world scenes remains a very challenging problem. Overcoming drawbacks of single-stage detectors, we take aim at precisely detecting objects for static and temporal scenes in real time. Firstly, as a dual refinement mechanism, a novel anchor-offset detection is designed, which includes an anchor refinement, a feature location refinement, and a deformable detection head. This new detection mode is able to simultaneously perform two-step regression and capture accurate object features. Based on the anchor-offset detection, a dual refinement network (DRNet) is developed for high-performance static detection, where a multi-deformable head is further designed to leverage contextual information for describing objects. As for temporal detection in videos, temporal refinement networks (TRNet) and temporal dual refinement networks (TDRNet) are developed by propagating the refinement information across time. We also propose a soft refinement strategy to temporally match object motion with the previous refinement. Our proposed methods are evaluated on PASCAL VOC, COCO, and ImageNet VID datasets. Extensive comparisons on static and temporal detection verify the superiority of DRNet, TRNet, and TDRNet. Consequently, our developed approaches run in a fairly fast speed, and in the meantime achieve a significantly enhanced detection accuracy, i.e., 84.4% mAP on VOC 2007, 83.6% mAP on VOC 2012, 69.4% mAP on VID 2017, and 42.4% AP on COCO. Ultimately, producing encouraging results, our methods are applied to online underwater object detection and grasping with an autonomous system. Codes are publicly available at https://github.com/SeanChenxy/TDRN. 

Title: Particle Filter Based Monocular Human Tracking with a 3D Cardbox Model and a Novel Deterministic Resampling Strategy
Abstract:  The challenge of markerless human motion tracking is the high dimensionality of the search space. Thus, efficient exploration in the search space is of great significance. In this paper, a motion capturing algorithm is proposed for upper body motion tracking. The proposed system tracks human motion based on monocular silhouette-matching, and it is built on the top of a hierarchical particle filter, within which a novel deterministic resampling strategy (DRS) is applied. The proposed system is evaluated quantitatively with the ground truth data measured by an inertial sensor system. In addition, we compare the DRS with the stratified resampling strategy (SRS). It is shown in experiments that DRS outperforms SRS with the same amount of particles. Moreover, a new 3D articulated human upper body model with the name 3D cardbox model is created and is proven to work successfully for motion tracking. Experiments show that the proposed system can robustly track upper body motion without self-occlusion. Motions towards the camera can also be well tracked. 

Title: Model-Driven Feed-Forward Prediction for Manipulation of Deformable Objects
Abstract:  Robotic manipulation of deformable objects is a difficult problem especially because of the complexity of the many different ways an object can deform. Searching such a high dimensional state space makes it difficult to recognize, track, and manipulate deformable objects. In this paper, we introduce a predictive, model-driven approach to address this challenge, using a pre-computed, simulated database of deformable object models. Mesh models of common deformable garments are simulated with the garments picked up in multiple different poses under gravity, and stored in a database for fast and efficient retrieval. To validate this approach, we developed a comprehensive pipeline for manipulating clothing as in a typical laundry task. First, the database is used for category and pose estimation for a garment in an arbitrary position. A fully featured 3D model of the garment is constructed in real-time and volumetric features are then used to obtain the most similar model in the database to predict the object category and pose. Second, the database can significantly benefit the manipulation of deformable objects via non-rigid registration, providing accurate correspondences between the reconstructed object model and the database models. Third, the accurate model simulation can also be used to optimize the trajectories for manipulation of deformable objects, such as the folding of garments. Extensive experimental results are shown for the tasks above using a variety of different clothing. 

Title: MAME : Model-Agnostic Meta-Exploration
Abstract:  Meta-Reinforcement learning approaches aim to develop learning procedures that can adapt quickly to a distribution of tasks with the help of a few examples. Developing efficient exploration strategies capable of finding the most useful samples becomes critical in such settings. Existing approaches towards finding efficient exploration strategies add auxiliary objectives to promote exploration by the pre-update policy, however, this makes the adaptation using a few gradient steps difficult as the pre-update (exploration) and post-update (exploitation) policies are often quite different. Instead, we propose to explicitly model a separate exploration policy for the task distribution. Having two different policies gives more flexibility in training the exploration policy and also makes adaptation to any specific task easier. We show that using self-supervised or supervised learning objectives for adaptation allows for more efficient inner-loop updates and also demonstrate the superior performance of our model compared to prior works in this domain. 

Title: Sequential Learning of Movement Prediction in Dynamic Environments using LSTM Autoencoder
Abstract:  Predicting movement of objects while the action of learning agent interacts with the dynamics of the scene still remains a key challenge in robotics. We propose a multi-layer Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) autoendocer network that predicts future frames for a robot navigating in a dynamic environment with moving obstacles. The autoencoder network is composed of a state and action conditioned decoder network that reconstructs the future frames of video, conditioned on the action taken by the agent. The input image frames are first transformed into low dimensional feature vectors with a pre-trained encoder network and then reconstructed with the LSTM autoencoder network to generate the future frames. A virtual environment, based on the OpenAi-Gym framework for robotics, is used to gather training data and test the proposed network. The initial experiments show promising results indicating that these predicted frames can be used by an appropriate reinforcement learning framework in future to navigate around dynamic obstacles. 

Title: Robust Recovery Controller for a Quadrupedal Robot using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  The ability to recover from a fall is an essential feature for a legged robot to navigate in challenging environments robustly. Until today, there has been very little progress on this topic. Current solutions mostly build upon (heuristically) predefined trajectories, resulting in unnatural behaviors and requiring considerable effort in engineering system-specific components. In this paper, we present an approach based on model-free Deep Reinforcement Learning (RL) to control recovery maneuvers of quadrupedal robots using a hierarchical behavior-based controller. The controller consists of four neural network policies including three behaviors and one behavior selector to coordinate them. Each of them is trained individually in simulation and deployed directly on a real system. We experimentally validate our approach on the quadrupedal robot ANYmal, which is a dog-sized quadrupedal system with 12 degrees of freedom. With our method, ANYmal manifests dynamic and reactive recovery behaviors to recover from an arbitrary fall configuration within less than 5 seconds. We tested the recovery maneuver more than 100 times, and the success rate was higher than 97 %. 

Title: 2D Linear Time-Variant Controller for Human's Intention Detection for Reach-to-Grasp Trajectories in Novel Scenes
Abstract:  Designing robotic assistance devices for manipulation tasks is challenging. This work is concerned with improving accuracy and usability of semi-autonomous robots, such as human operated manipulators or exoskeletons. The key insight is to develop a system that takes into account context- and user-awareness to take better decisions in how to assist the user. The context-awareness is implemented by enabling the system to automatically generate a set of candidate grasps and reach-to-grasp trajectories in novel, cluttered scenes. The user-awareness is implemented as a linear time-variant feedback controller to facilitate the motion towards the most promising grasp. Our approach is demonstrated in a simple 2D example in which participants are asked to grasp a specific object in a clutter scene. Our approach also reduce the number of controllable dimensions for the user by providing only control on x- and y-axis, while orientation of the end-effector and the pose of its fingers are inferred by the system. The experimental results show the benefits of our approach in terms of accuracy and execution time with respect to a pure manual control. 

Title: ChauffeurNet: Learning to Drive by Imitating the Best and Synthesizing the Worst
Abstract:  Our goal is to train a policy for autonomous driving via imitation learning that is robust enough to drive a real vehicle. We find that standard behavior cloning is insufficient for handling complex driving scenarios, even when we leverage a perception system for preprocessing the input and a controller for executing the output on the car: 30 million examples are still not enough. We propose exposing the learner to synthesized data in the form of perturbations to the expert's driving, which creates interesting situations such as collisions and/or going off the road. Rather than purely imitating all data, we augment the imitation loss with additional losses that penalize undesirable events and encourage progress -- the perturbations then provide an important signal for these losses and lead to robustness of the learned model. We show that the ChauffeurNet model can handle complex situations in simulation, and present ablation experiments that emphasize the importance of each of our proposed changes and show that the model is responding to the appropriate causal factors. Finally, we demonstrate the model driving a car in the real world. 

Title: Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning with Hindsight
Abstract:  Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithms can suffer from poor sample efficiency when rewards are delayed and sparse. We introduce a solution that enables agents to learn temporally extended actions at multiple levels of abstraction in a sample efficient and automated fashion. Our approach combines universal value functions and hindsight learning, allowing agents to learn policies belonging to different time scales in parallel. We show that our method significantly accelerates learning in a variety of discrete and continuous tasks. 

Title: Efficient Motion Planning for Automated Lane Change based on Imitation Learning and Mixed-Integer Optimization
Abstract:  Intelligent motion planning is one of the core components in automated vehicles, which has received extensive interests. Traditional motion planning methods suffer from several drawbacks in terms of optimality, efficiency and generalization capability. Sampling based methods cannot guarantee the optimality of the generated trajectories. Whereas the optimization-based methods are not able to perform motion planning in real-time, and limited by the simplified formalization. In this work, we propose a learning-based approach to handle those shortcomings. Mixed Integer Quadratic Problem based optimization (MIQP) is used to generate the optimal lane-change trajectories which served as the training dataset for learning-based action generation algorithms. A hierarchical supervised learning model is devised to make the fast lane-change decision. Numerous experiments have been conducted to evaluate the optimality, efficiency, and generalization capability of the proposed approach. The experimental results indicate that the proposed model outperforms several commonly used motion planning baselines. 

Title: PROBE-GK: Predictive Robust Estimation using Generalized Kernels
Abstract:  Many algorithms in computer vision and robotics make strong assumptions about uncertainty, and rely on the validity of these assumptions to produce accurate and consistent state estimates. In practice, dynamic environments may degrade sensor performance in predictable ways that cannot be captured with static uncertainty parameters. In this paper, we employ fast nonparametric Bayesian inference techniques to more accurately model sensor uncertainty. By setting a prior on observation uncertainty, we derive a predictive robust estimator, and show how our model can be learned from sample images, both with and without knowledge of the motion used to generate the data. We validate our approach through Monte Carlo simulations, and report significant improvements in localization accuracy relative to a fixed noise model in several settings, including on synthetic data, the KITTI dataset, and our own experimental platform. 

Title: Generation and Comprehension of Unambiguous Object Descriptions
Abstract:  We propose a method that can generate an unambiguous description (known as a referring expression) of a specific object or region in an image, and which can also comprehend or interpret such an expression to infer which object is being described. We show that our method outperforms previous methods that generate descriptions of objects without taking into account other potentially ambiguous objects in the scene. Our model is inspired by recent successes of deep learning methods for image captioning, but while image captioning is difficult to evaluate, our task allows for easy objective evaluation. We also present a new large-scale dataset for referring expressions, based on MS-COCO. We have released the dataset and a toolbox for visualization and evaluation, see https://github.com/mjhucla/Google_Refexp_toolbox 

Title: A Mobile Manipulation System for One-Shot Teaching of Complex Tasks in Homes
Abstract:  We describe a mobile manipulation hardware and software system capable of autonomously performing complex human-level tasks in real homes, after being taught the task with a single demonstration from a person in virtual reality. This is enabled by a highly capable mobile manipulation robot, whole-body task space hybrid position/force control, teaching of parameterized primitives linked to a robust learned dense visual embeddings representation of the scene, and a task graph of the taught behaviors. We demonstrate the robustness of the approach by presenting results for performing a variety of tasks, under different environmental conditions, in multiple real homes. Our approach achieves 85% overall success rate on three tasks that consist of an average of 45 behaviors each. 

Title: Reinforcement learning for non-prehensile manipulation: Transfer from simulation to physical system
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning has emerged as a promising methodology for training robot controllers. However, most results have been limited to simulation due to the need for a large number of samples and the lack of automated-yet-safe data collection methods. Model-based reinforcement learning methods provide an avenue to circumvent these challenges, but the traditional concern has been the mismatch between the simulator and the real world. Here, we show that control policies learned in simulation can successfully transfer to a physical system, composed of three Phantom robots pushing an object to various desired target positions. We use a modified form of the natural policy gradient algorithm for learning, applied to a carefully identified simulation model. The resulting policies, trained entirely in simulation, work well on the physical system without additional training. In addition, we show that training with an ensemble of models makes the learned policies more robust to modeling errors, thus compensating for difficulties in system identification. 

Title: Obstacle Avoidance through Deep Networks based Intermediate Perception
Abstract:  Obstacle avoidance from monocular images is a challenging problem for robots. Though multi-view structure-from-motion could build 3D maps, it is not robust in textureless environments. Some learning based methods exploit human demonstration to predict a steering command directly from a single image. However, this method is usually biased towards certain tasks or demonstration scenarios and also biased by human understanding. In this paper, we propose a new method to predict a trajectory from images. We train our system on more diverse NYUv2 dataset. The ground truth trajectory is computed from the designed cost functions automatically. The Convolutional Neural Network perception is divided into two stages: first, predict depth map and surface normal from RGB images, which are two important geometric properties related to 3D obstacle representation. Second, predict the trajectory from the depth and normal. Results show that our intermediate perception increases the accuracy by 20% than the direct prediction. Our model generalizes well to other public indoor datasets and is also demonstrated for robot flights in simulation and experiments. 

Title: Ultimate SLAM? Combining Events, Images, and IMU for Robust Visual SLAM in HDR and High Speed Scenarios
Abstract:  Event cameras are bio-inspired vision sensors that output pixel-level brightness changes instead of standard intensity frames. These cameras do not suffer from motion blur and have a very high dynamic range, which enables them to provide reliable visual information during high speed motions or in scenes characterized by high dynamic range. However, event cameras output only little information when the amount of motion is limited, such as in the case of almost still motion. Conversely, standard cameras provide instant and rich information about the environment most of the time (in low-speed and good lighting scenarios), but they fail severely in case of fast motions, or difficult lighting such as high dynamic range or low light scenes. In this paper, we present the first state estimation pipeline that leverages the complementary advantages of these two sensors by fusing in a tightly-coupled manner events, standard frames, and inertial measurements. We show on the publicly available Event Camera Dataset that our hybrid pipeline leads to an accuracy improvement of 130% over event-only pipelines, and 85% over standard-frames-only visual-inertial systems, while still being computationally tractable. Furthermore, we use our pipeline to demonstrate - to the best of our knowledge - the first autonomous quadrotor flight using an event camera for state estimation, unlocking flight scenarios that were not reachable with traditional visual-inertial odometry, such as low-light environments and high-dynamic range scenes. 

Title: Inferring Occluded Geometry Improves Performance when Retrieving an Object from Dense Clutter
Abstract:  Object search -- the problem of finding a target object in a cluttered scene -- is essential to solve for many robotics applications in warehouse and household environments. However, cluttered environments entail that objects often occlude one another, making it difficult to segment objects and infer their shapes and properties. Instead of relying on the availability of CAD or other explicit models of scene objects, we augment a manipulation planner for cluttered environments with a state-of-the-art deep neural network for shape completion as well as a volumetric memory system, allowing the robot to reason about what may be contained in occluded areas. We test the system in a variety of tabletop manipulation scenes composed of household items, highlighting its applicability to realistic domains. Our results suggest that incorporating both components into a manipulation planning framework significantly reduces the number of actions needed to find a hidden object in dense clutter. 

Title: Task Transfer by Preference-Based Cost Learning
Abstract:  The goal of task transfer in reinforcement learning is migrating the action policy of an agent to the target task from the source task. Given their successes on robotic action planning, current methods mostly rely on two requirements: exactly-relevant expert demonstrations or the explicitly-coded cost function on target task, both of which, however, are inconvenient to obtain in practice. In this paper, we relax these two strong conditions by developing a novel task transfer framework where the expert preference is applied as a guidance. In particular, we alternate the following two steps: Firstly, letting experts apply pre-defined preference rules to select related expert demonstrates for the target task. Secondly, based on the selection result, we learn the target cost function and trajectory distribution simultaneously via enhanced Adversarial MaxEnt IRL and generate more trajectories by the learned target distribution for the next preference selection. The theoretical analysis on the distribution learning and convergence of the proposed algorithm are provided. Extensive simulations on several benchmarks have been conducted for further verifying the effectiveness of the proposed method. 

Title: A Conditional Adversarial Network for Scene Flow Estimation
Abstract:  The problem of Scene flow estimation in depth videos has been attracting attention of researchers of robot vision, due to its potential application in various areas of robotics. The conventional scene flow methods are difficult to use in reallife applications due to their long computational overhead. We propose a conditional adversarial network SceneFlowGAN for scene flow estimation. The proposed SceneFlowGAN uses loss function at two ends: both generator and descriptor ends. The proposed network is the first attempt to estimate scene flow using generative adversarial networks, and is able to estimate both the optical flow and disparity from the input stereo images simultaneously. The proposed method is experimented on a large RGB-D benchmark sceneflow dataset. 

Title: A Factorization Approach to Inertial Affine Structure from Motion
Abstract:  We consider the problem of reconstructing a 3-D scene from a moving camera with high frame rate using the affine projection model. This problem is traditionally known as Affine Structure from Motion (Affine SfM), and can be solved using an elegant low-rank factorization formulation. In this paper, we assume that an accelerometer and gyro are rigidly mounted with the camera, so that synchronized linear acceleration and angular velocity measurements are available together with the image measurements. We extend the standard Affine SfM algorithm to integrate these measurements through the use of image derivatives. 

Title: Learning Navigation Subroutines from Egocentric Videos
Abstract:  Planning at a higher level of abstraction instead of low level torques improves the sample efficiency in reinforcement learning, and computational efficiency in classical planning. We propose a method to learn such hierarchical abstractions, or subroutines from egocentric video data of experts performing tasks. We learn a self-supervised inverse model on small amounts of random interaction data to pseudo-label the expert egocentric videos with agent actions. Visuomotor subroutines are acquired from these pseudo-labeled videos by learning a latent intent-conditioned policy that predicts the inferred pseudo-actions from the corresponding image observations. We demonstrate our proposed approach in context of navigation, and show that we can successfully learn consistent and diverse visuomotor subroutines from passive egocentric videos. We demonstrate the utility of our acquired visuomotor subroutines by using them as is for exploration, and as sub-policies in a hierarchical RL framework for reaching point goals and semantic goals. We also demonstrate behavior of our subroutines in the real world, by deploying them on a real robotic platform. Project website: https://ashishkumar1993.github.io/subroutines/. 

Title: ParkPredict: Motion and Intent Prediction of Vehicles in Parking Lots
Abstract:  We investigate the problem of predicting driver behavior in parking lots, an environment which is less structured than typical road networks and features complex, interactive maneuvers in a compact space. Using the CARLA simulator, we develop a parking lot environment and collect a dataset of human parking maneuvers. We then study the impact of model complexity and feature information by comparing a multi-modal Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) prediction model and a Convolution Neural Network LSTM (CNN-LSTM) to a physics-based Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) baseline. Our results show that 1) intent can be estimated well (roughly 85% top-1 accuracy and nearly 100% top-3 accuracy with the LSTM and CNN-LSTM model); 2) knowledge of the human driver's intended parking spot has a major impact on predicting parking trajectory; and 3) the semantic representation of the environment improves long term predictions. 

Title: Long Range Neural Navigation Policies for the Real World
Abstract:  Learned Neural Network based policies have shown promising results for robot navigation. However, most of these approaches fall short of being used on a real robot due to the extensive simulated training they require. These simulations lack the visuals and dynamics of the real world, which makes it infeasible to deploy on a real robot. We present a novel Neural Net based policy, NavNet, which allows for easy deployment on a real robot. It consists of two sub policies -- a high level policy which can understand real images and perform long range planning expressed in high level commands; a low level policy that can translate the long range plan into low level commands on a specific platform in a safe and robust manner. For every new deployment, the high level policy is trained on an easily obtainable scan of the environment modeling its visuals and layout. We detail the design of such an environment and how one can use it for training a final navigation policy. Further, we demonstrate a learned low-level policy. We deploy the model in a large office building and test it extensively, achieving $0.80$ success rate over long navigation runs and outperforming SLAM-based models in the same settings. 

Title: Modeling and Soft-fault Diagnosis of Underwater Thrusters with Recurrent Neural Networks
Abstract:  Noncritical soft-faults and model deviations are a challenge for Fault Detection and Diagnosis (FDD) of resident Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs). Such systems may have a faster performance degradation due to the permanent exposure to the marine environment, and constant monitoring of component conditions is required to ensure their reliability. This works presents an evaluation of Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) for a data-driven fault detection and diagnosis scheme for underwater thrusters with empirical data. The nominal behavior of the thruster was modeled using the measured control input, voltage, rotational speed and current signals. We evaluated the performance of fault classification using all the measured signals compared to using the computed residuals from the nominal model as features. 

Title: MODNet: Moving Object Detection Network with Motion and Appearance for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  We propose a novel multi-task learning system that combines appearance and motion cues for a better semantic reasoning of the environment. A unified architecture for joint vehicle detection and motion segmentation is introduced. In this architecture, a two-stream encoder is shared among both tasks. In order to evaluate our method in autonomous driving setting, KITTI annotated sequences with detection and odometry ground truth are used to automatically generate static/dynamic annotations on the vehicles. This dataset is called KITTI Moving Object Detection dataset (KITTI MOD). The dataset will be made publicly available to act as a benchmark for the motion detection task. Our experiments show that the proposed method outperforms state of the art methods that utilize motion cue only with 21.5% in mAP on KITTI MOD. Our method performs on par with the state of the art unsupervised methods on DAVIS benchmark for generic object segmentation. One of our interesting conclusions is that joint training of motion segmentation and vehicle detection benefits motion segmentation. Motion segmentation has relatively fewer data, unlike the detection task. However, the shared fusion encoder benefits from joint training to learn a generalized representation. The proposed method runs in 120 ms per frame, which beats the state of the art motion detection/segmentation in computational efficiency. 

Title: Multi-Agent Image Classification via Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  We investigate a classification problem using multiple mobile agents capable of collecting (partial) pose-dependent observations of an unknown environment. The objective is to classify an image over a finite time horizon. We propose a network architecture on how agents should form a local belief, take local actions, and extract relevant features from their raw partial observations. Agents are allowed to exchange information with their neighboring agents to update their own beliefs. It is shown how reinforcement learning techniques can be utilized to achieve decentralized implementation of the classification problem by running a decentralized consensus protocol. Our experimental results on the MNIST handwritten digit dataset demonstrates the effectiveness of our proposed framework. 

Title: Synthetic Occlusion Augmentation with Volumetric Heatmaps for the 2018 ECCV PoseTrack Challenge on 3D Human Pose Estimation
Abstract:  In this paper we present our winning entry at the 2018 ECCV PoseTrack Challenge on 3D human pose estimation. Using a fully-convolutional backbone architecture, we obtain volumetric heatmaps per body joint, which we convert to coordinates using soft-argmax. Absolute person center depth is estimated by a 1D heatmap prediction head. The coordinates are back-projected to 3D camera space, where we minimize the L1 loss. Key to our good results is the training data augmentation with randomly placed occluders from the Pascal VOC dataset. In addition to reaching first place in the Challenge, our method also surpasses the state-of-the-art on the full Human3.6M benchmark among methods that use no additional pose datasets in training. Code for applying synthetic occlusions is availabe at https://github.com/isarandi/synthetic-occlusion. 

Title: The Adaptive Stress Testing Formulation
Abstract:  Validation is a key challenge in the search for safe autonomy. Simulations are often either too simple to provide robust validation, or too complex to tractably compute. Therefore, approximate validation methods are needed to tractably find failures without unsafe simplifications. This paper presents the theory behind one such black-box approach: adaptive stress testing (AST). We also provide three examples of validation problems formulated to work with AST. 

Title: First-Person Perceptual Guidance Behavior Decomposition using Active Constraint Classification
Abstract:  Humans exhibit a wide range of adaptive and robust dynamic motion behavior that is yet unmatched by autonomous control systems. These capabilities are essential for real-time behavior generation in cluttered environments. Recent work suggests that human capabilities rely on task structure learning and embedded or ecological cognition in the form of perceptual guidance. This paper describes the experimental investigation of the functional elements of human motion guidance, focusing on the control and perceptual mechanisms. The motion, control, and perceptual data from first-person guidance experiments is decomposed into elemental segments based on invariants. These elements are then analyzed to determine their functional characteristics. The resulting model explains the structure of the agent-environment interaction and provides lawful descriptions of specific perceptual guidance and control mechanisms. 

Title: Geo-Supervised Visual Depth Prediction
Abstract:  We propose using global orientation from inertial measurements, and the bias it induces on the shape of objects populating the scene, to inform visual 3D reconstruction. We test the effect of using the resulting prior in depth prediction from a single image, where the normal vectors to surfaces of objects of certain classes tend to align with gravity or be orthogonal to it. Adding such a prior to baseline methods for monocular depth prediction yields improvements beyond the state-of-the-art and illustrates the power of gravity as a supervisory signal. 

Title: Multi-Class Detection and Segmentation of Objects in Depth
Abstract:  The quality of life of many people could be improved by autonomous humanoid robots in the home. To function in the human world, a humanoid household robot must be able to locate itself and perceive the environment like a human; scene perception, object detection and segmentation, and object spatial localization in 3D are fundamental capabilities for such humanoid robots. This paper presents a 3D multi-class object detection and segmentation method. The contributions are twofold. Firstly, we present a multi-class detection method, where a minimal joint codebook is learned in a principled manner. Secondly, we incorporate depth information using RGB-D imagery, which increases the robustness of the method and gives the 3D location of objects -- necessary since the robot reasons in 3D space. Experiments show that the multi-class extension improves the detection efficiency with respect to the number of classes and the depth extension improves the detection robustness and give sufficient natural 3D location of the objects. 

Title: 3D Robot Pose Estimation from 2D Images
Abstract:  This paper considers the task of locating articulated poses of multiple robots in images. Our approach simultaneously infers the number of robots in a scene, identifies joint locations and estimates sparse depth maps around joint locations. The proposed method applies staged convolutional feature detectors to 2D image inputs and computes robot instance masks using a recurrent network architecture. In addition, regression maps of most likely joint locations in pixel coordinates together with depth information are computed. Compositing 3D robot joint kinematics is accomplished by applying masks to joint readout maps. Our end-to-end formulation is in contrast to previous work in which the composition of robot joints into kinematics is performed in a separate post-processing step. Despite the fact that our models are trained on artificial data, we demonstrate generalizability to real world images. 

Title: Orientation Attentive Robot Grasp Synthesis
Abstract:  Physical neighborhoods of grasping points in common objects may offer a wide variety of plausible grasping configurations. For a fixed center of a simple spherical object, for example, there is an infinite number of valid grasping orientations. Such structures create ambiguous and discontinuous grasp maps that confuse neural regressors. We perform a thorough investigation of the challenging Jacquard dataset to show that the existing pixel-wise learning approaches are prone to box overlaps of drastically different orientations. We then introduce a novel augmented map representation that partitions the angle space into bins to allow for the co-occurrence of such orientations and observe larger accuracy margins on the ground truth grasp map reconstructions. On top of that, we build the ORientation AtteNtive Grasp synthEsis (ORANGE) framework that jointly solves a bin classification problem and a real-value regression. The grasp synthesis is attentively supervised by combining discrete and continuous estimations into a single map. We provide experimental evidence by appending ORANGE to two existing unimodal architectures and boost their performance to state-of-the-art levels on Jacquard, specifically 94.71\%, over all related works, even multimodal. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/nickgkan/orange}. 

Title: Towards Learning a Generic Agent for Vision-and-Language Navigation via Pre-training
Abstract:  Learning to navigate in a visual environment following natural-language instructions is a challenging task, because the multimodal inputs to the agent are highly variable, and the training data on a new task is often limited. In this paper, we present the first pre-training and fine-tuning paradigm for vision-and-language navigation (VLN) tasks. By training on a large amount of image-text-action triplets in a self-supervised learning manner, the pre-trained model provides generic representations of visual environments and language instructions. It can be easily used as a drop-in for existing VLN frameworks, leading to the proposed agent called Prevalent. It learns more effectively in new tasks and generalizes better in a previously unseen environment. The performance is validated on three VLN tasks. On the Room-to-Room benchmark, our model improves the state-of-the-art from 47% to 51% on success rate weighted by path length. Further, the learned representation is transferable to other VLN tasks. On two recent tasks, vision-and-dialog navigation and "Help, Anna!" the proposed Prevalent leads to significant improvement over existing methods, achieving a new state of the art. 

Title: Incremental Visual-Inertial 3D Mesh Generation with Structural Regularities
Abstract:  Visual-Inertial Odometry (VIO) algorithms typically rely on a point cloud representation of the scene that does not model the topology of the environment. A 3D mesh instead offers a richer, yet lightweight, model. Nevertheless, building a 3D mesh out of the sparse and noisy 3D landmarks triangulated by a VIO algorithm often results in a mesh that does not fit the real scene. In order to regularize the mesh, previous approaches decouple state estimation from the 3D mesh regularization step, and either limit the 3D mesh to the current frame or let the mesh grow indefinitely. We propose instead to tightly couple mesh regularization and state estimation by detecting and enforcing structural regularities in a novel factor-graph formulation. We also propose to incrementally build the mesh by restricting its extent to the time-horizon of the VIO optimization; the resulting 3D mesh covers a larger portion of the scene than a per-frame approach while its memory usage and computational complexity remain bounded. We show that our approach successfully regularizes the mesh, while improving localization accuracy, when structural regularities are present, and remains operational in scenes without regularities. 

Title: Place Recognition with Event-based Cameras and a Neural Implementation of SeqSLAM
Abstract:  Event-based cameras offer much potential to the fields of robotics and computer vision, in part due to their large dynamic range and extremely high "frame rates". These attributes make them, at least in theory, particularly suitable for enabling tasks like navigation and mapping on high speed robotic platforms under challenging lighting conditions, a task which has been particularly challenging for traditional algorithms and camera sensors. Before these tasks become feasible however, progress must be made towards adapting and innovating current RGB-camera-based algorithms to work with event-based cameras. In this paper we present ongoing research investigating two distinct approaches to incorporating event-based cameras for robotic navigation: the investigation of suitable place recognition / loop closure techniques, and the development of efficient neural implementations of place recognition techniques that enable the possibility of place recognition using event-based cameras at very high frame rates using neuromorphic computing hardware. 

Title: The KIT Motion-Language Dataset
Abstract:  Linking human motion and natural language is of great interest for the generation of semantic representations of human activities as well as for the generation of robot activities based on natural language input. However, while there have been years of research in this area, no standardized and openly available dataset exists to support the development and evaluation of such systems. We therefore propose the KIT Motion-Language Dataset, which is large, open, and extensible. We aggregate data from multiple motion capture databases and include them in our dataset using a unified representation that is independent of the capture system or marker set, making it easy to work with the data regardless of its origin. To obtain motion annotations in natural language, we apply a crowd-sourcing approach and a web-based tool that was specifically build for this purpose, the Motion Annotation Tool. We thoroughly document the annotation process itself and discuss gamification methods that we used to keep annotators motivated. We further propose a novel method, perplexity-based selection, which systematically selects motions for further annotation that are either under-represented in our dataset or that have erroneous annotations. We show that our method mitigates the two aforementioned problems and ensures a systematic annotation process. We provide an in-depth analysis of the structure and contents of our resulting dataset, which, as of October 10, 2016, contains 3911 motions with a total duration of 11.23 hours and 6278 annotations in natural language that contain 52,903 words. We believe this makes our dataset an excellent choice that enables more transparent and comparable research in this important area. 

Title: Semantic Foreground Inpainting from Weak Supervision
Abstract:  Semantic scene understanding is an essential task for self-driving vehicles and mobile robots. In our work, we aim to estimate a semantic segmentation map, in which the foreground objects are removed and semantically inpainted with background classes, from a single RGB image. This semantic foreground inpainting task is performed by a single-stage convolutional neural network (CNN) that contains our novel max-pooling as inpainting (MPI) module, which is trained with weak supervision, i.e., it does not require manual background annotations for the foreground regions to be inpainted. Our approach is inherently more efficient than the previous two-stage state-of-the-art method, and outperforms it by a margin of 3% IoU for the inpainted foreground regions on Cityscapes. The performance margin increases to 6% IoU, when tested on the unseen KITTI dataset. The code and the manually annotated datasets for testing are shared with the research community at https://github.com/Chenyang-Lu/semantic-foreground-inpainting. 

Title: COSMO: Contextualized Scene Modeling with Boltzmann Machines
Abstract:  Scene modeling is very crucial for robots that need to perceive, reason about and manipulate the objects in their environments. In this paper, we adapt and extend Boltzmann Machines (BMs) for contextualized scene modeling. Although there are many models on the subject, ours is the first to bring together objects, relations, and affordances in a highly-capable generative model. For this end, we introduce a hybrid version of BMs where relations and affordances are introduced with shared, tri-way connections into the model. Moreover, we contribute a dataset for relation estimation and modeling studies. We evaluate our method in comparison with several baselines on object estimation, out-of-context object detection, relation estimation, and affordance estimation tasks. Moreover, to illustrate the generative capability of the model, we show several example scenes that the model is able to generate. 

Title: Deep Neural Networks for Swept Volume Prediction Between Configurations
Abstract:  Swept Volume (SV), the volume displaced by an object when it is moving along a trajectory, is considered a useful metric for motion planning. First, SV has been used to identify collisions along a trajectory, because it directly measures the amount of space required for an object to move. Second, in sampling-based motion planning, SV is an ideal distance metric, because it correlates to the likelihood of success of the expensive local planning step between two sampled configurations. However, in both of these applications, traditional SV algorithms are too computationally expensive for efficient motion planning. In this work, we train Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) to learn the size of SV for specific robot geometries. Results for two robots, a 6 degree of freedom (DOF) rigid body and a 7 DOF fixed-based manipulator, indicate that the network estimations are very close to the true size of SV and is more than 1500 times faster than a state of the art SV estimation algorithm. 

Title: Imitation Learning of Robot Policies by Combining Language, Vision and Demonstration
Abstract:  In this work we propose a novel end-to-end imitation learning approach which combines natural language, vision, and motion information to produce an abstract representation of a task, which in turn is used to synthesize specific motion controllers at run-time. This multimodal approach enables generalization to a wide variety of environmental conditions and allows an end-user to direct a robot policy through verbal communication. We empirically validate our approach with an extensive set of simulations and show that it achieves a high task success rate over a variety of conditions while remaining amenable to probabilistic interpretability. 

Title: Social-WaGDAT: Interaction-aware Trajectory Prediction via Wasserstein Graph Double-Attention Network
Abstract:  Effective understanding of the environment and accurate trajectory prediction of surrounding dynamic obstacles are indispensable for intelligent mobile systems (like autonomous vehicles and social robots) to achieve safe and high-quality planning when they navigate in highly interactive and crowded scenarios. Due to the existence of frequent interactions and uncertainty in the scene evolution, it is desired for the prediction system to enable relational reasoning on different entities and provide a distribution of future trajectories for each agent. In this paper, we propose a generic generative neural system (called Social-WaGDAT) for multi-agent trajectory prediction, which makes a step forward to explicit interaction modeling by incorporating relational inductive biases with a dynamic graph representation and leverages both trajectory and scene context information. We also employ an efficient kinematic constraint layer applied to vehicle trajectory prediction which not only ensures physical feasibility but also enhances model performance. The proposed system is evaluated on three public benchmark datasets for trajectory prediction, where the agents cover pedestrians, cyclists and on-road vehicles. The experimental results demonstrate that our model achieves better performance than various baseline approaches in terms of prediction accuracy. 

Title: Planning on the fast lane: Learning to interact using attention mechanisms in path integral inverse reinforcement learning
Abstract:  General-purpose trajectory planning algorithms for automated driving utilize complex reward functions to perform a combined optimization of strategic, behavioral, and kinematic features. The specification and tuning of a single reward function is a tedious task and does not generalize over a large set of traffic situations. Deep learning approaches based on path integral inverse reinforcement learning have been successfully applied to predict local situation-dependent reward functions using features of a set of sampled driving policies. Sample-based trajectory planning algorithms are able to approximate a spatio-temporal subspace of feasible driving policies that can be used to encode the context of a situation. However, the interaction with dynamic objects requires an extended planning horizon, which requires sequential context modeling. In this work, we are concerned with the sequential reward prediction over an extended time horizon. We present a neural network architecture that uses a policy attention mechanism to generate a low-dimensional context vector by concentrating on trajectories with a human-like driving style. Besides, we propose a temporal attention mechanism to identify context switches and allow for stable adaptation of rewards. We evaluate our results on complex simulated driving situations, including other vehicles. Our evaluation shows that our policy attention mechanisms learns to focus on collision free policies in the configuration space. Furthermore, the temporal attention mechanism learns persistent interaction with other vehicles over an extended planning horizon. 

Title: Quasi-Newton Solver for Robust Non-Rigid Registration
Abstract:  Imperfect data (noise, outliers and partial overlap) and high degrees of freedom make non-rigid registration a classical challenging problem in computer vision. Existing methods typically adopt the $\ell_{p}$ type robust estimator to regularize the fitting and smoothness, and the proximal operator is used to solve the resulting non-smooth problem. However, the slow convergence of these algorithms limits its wide applications. In this paper, we propose a formulation for robust non-rigid registration based on a globally smooth robust estimator for data fitting and regularization, which can handle outliers and partial overlaps. We apply the majorization-minimization algorithm to the problem, which reduces each iteration to solving a simple least-squares problem with L-BFGS. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method for non-rigid alignment between two shapes with outliers and partial overlap, with quantitative evaluation showing that it outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of registration accuracy and computational speed. The source code is available at https://github.com/Juyong/Fast_RNRR. 

Title: Modelling the Influence of Cultural Information on Vision-Based Human Home Activity Recognition
Abstract:  Daily life activities, such as eating and sleeping, are deeply influenced by a person's culture, hence generating differences in the way a same activity is performed by individuals belonging to different cultures. We argue that taking cultural information into account can improve the performance of systems for the automated recognition of human activities. We propose four different solutions to the problem and present a system which uses a Naive Bayes model to associate cultural information with semantic information extracted from still images. Preliminary experiments with a dataset of images of individuals lying on the floor, sleeping on a futon and sleeping on a bed suggest that: i) solutions explicitly taking cultural information into account are more accurate than culture-unaware solutions; and ii) the proposed system is a promising starting point for the development of culture-aware Human Activity Recognition methods. 

Title: Autonomous robotic nanofabrication with reinforcement learning
Abstract:  The ability to handle single molecules as effectively as macroscopic building-blocks would enable the construction of complex supramolecular structures that are not accessible by self-assembly. The fundamental challenges on the way towards this goal are the uncontrolled variability and poor observability of atomic-scale conformations. Here, we present a strategy to work around both obstacles, and demonstrate autonomous robotic nanofabrication by manipulating single molecules. Our approach employs reinforcement learning (RL), which is able to learn solution strategies even in the face of large uncertainty and with sparse feedback. However, to be useful for autonomous nanofabrication, standard RL algorithms need to be adapted to cope with the limited training opportunities available. We demonstrate the potential of our RL approach by applying it to an exemplary task of subtractive manufacturing, the removal of individual molecules from a molecular layer using a scanning probe microscope (SPM). Our RL agent reaches an excellent performance level, enabling us to automate a task which previously had to be performed by a human. We anticipate that our work opens the way towards autonomous agents for the robotic construction of functional supramolecular structures with speed, precision and perseverance beyond our current capabilities. 

Title: Robust Monocular Edge Visual Odometry through Coarse-to-Fine Data Association
Abstract:  In this work, we propose a monocular visual odometry framework, which allows exploiting the best attributes of edge feature for illumination-robust camera tracking, while at the same time ameliorating the performance degradation of edge mapping. In the front-end, an ICP-based edge registration can provide robust motion estimation and coarse data association under lighting changes. In the back-end, a novel edge-guided data association pipeline searches for the best photometrically matched points along geometrically possible edges through template matching, so that the matches can be further refined in later bundle adjustment. The core of our proposed data association strategy lies in a point-to-edge geometric uncertainty analysis, which analytically derives (1) the probabilistic search length formula that significantly reduces the search space for system speed-up and (2) the geometrical confidence metric for mapping degradation detection based on the predicted depth uncertainty. Moreover, match confidence based patch size adaption strategy is integrated into our pipeline, connecting with other components, to reduce the matching ambiguity. We present extensive analysis and evaluation of our proposed system on synthetic and real-world benchmark datasets under the influence of illumination changes and large camera motions, where our proposed system outperforms current state-of-art algorithms. 

Title: Learning to Walk via Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning (deep RL) holds the promise of automating the acquisition of complex controllers that can map sensory inputs directly to low-level actions. In the domain of robotic locomotion, deep RL could enable learning locomotion skills with minimal engineering and without an explicit model of the robot dynamics. Unfortunately, applying deep RL to real-world robotic tasks is exceptionally difficult, primarily due to poor sample complexity and sensitivity to hyperparameters. While hyperparameters can be easily tuned in simulated domains, tuning may be prohibitively expensive on physical systems, such as legged robots, that can be damaged through extensive trial-and-error learning. In this paper, we propose a sample-efficient deep RL algorithm based on maximum entropy RL that requires minimal per-task tuning and only a modest number of trials to learn neural network policies. We apply this method to learning walking gaits on a real-world Minitaur robot. Our method can acquire a stable gait from scratch directly in the real world in about two hours, without relying on any model or simulation, and the resulting policy is robust to moderate variations in the environment. We further show that our algorithm achieves state-of-the-art performance on simulated benchmarks with a single set of hyperparameters. Videos of training and the learned policy can be found on the project website. 

Title: Variational Inference as Iterative Projection in a Bayesian Hilbert Space
Abstract:  Variational Bayesian inference is an important machine-learning tool that finds application from statistics to robotics. The goal is to find an approximate probability density function (PDF) from a chosen family that is in some sense `closest' to the full Bayesian posterior. Closeness is typically defined through the selection of an appropriate loss functional such as the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence. In this paper, we explore a new formulation of variational inference by exploiting the fact that the set of PDFs constitutes a Bayesian Hilbert space under careful definitions of vector addition, scalar multiplication and an inner product. We show that variational inference based on KL divergence then amounts to an iterative projection of the Bayesian posterior onto a subspace corresponding to the selected approximation family. In fact, the inner product chosen for the Bayesian Hilbert space suggests the definition of a new measure of the information contained in a PDF and in turn a new divergence is introduced. Each step in the iterative projection is equivalent to a local minimization of this divergence. We present an example Bayesian subspace based on exponentiated Hermite polynomials as well as work through the details of this general framework for the specific case of the multivariate Gaussian approximation family and show the equivalence to another Gaussian variational inference approach. We furthermore discuss the implications for systems that exhibit sparsity, which is handled naturally in Bayesian space. 

Title: An Algorithmic Perspective on Imitation Learning
Abstract:  As robots and other intelligent agents move from simple environments and problems to more complex, unstructured settings, manually programming their behavior has become increasingly challenging and expensive. Often, it is easier for a teacher to demonstrate a desired behavior rather than attempt to manually engineer it. This process of learning from demonstrations, and the study of algorithms to do so, is called imitation learning. This work provides an introduction to imitation learning. It covers the underlying assumptions, approaches, and how they relate; the rich set of algorithms developed to tackle the problem; and advice on effective tools and implementation. We intend this paper to serve two audiences. First, we want to familiarize machine learning experts with the challenges of imitation learning, particularly those arising in robotics, and the interesting theoretical and practical distinctions between it and more familiar frameworks like statistical supervised learning theory and reinforcement learning. Second, we want to give roboticists and experts in applied artificial intelligence a broader appreciation for the frameworks and tools available for imitation learning. 

Title: Back to the Future: Joint Aware Temporal Deep Learning 3D Human Pose Estimation
Abstract:  We propose a new deep learning network that introduces a deeper CNN channel filter and constraints as losses to reduce joint position and motion errors for 3D video human body pose estimation. Our model outperforms the previous best result from the literature based on mean per-joint position error, velocity error, and acceleration errors on the Human 3.6M benchmark corresponding to a new state-of-the-art mean error reduction in all protocols and motion metrics. Mean per joint error is reduced by 1%, velocity error by 7% and acceleration by 13% compared to the best results from the literature. Our contribution increasing positional accuracy and motion smoothness in video can be integrated with future end to end networks without increasing network complexity. Our model and code are available at https://vnmr.github.io/ Keywords: 3D, human, image, pose, action, detection, object, video, visual, supervised, joint, kinematic 

Title: GISNet: Graph-Based Information Sharing Network For Vehicle Trajectory Prediction
Abstract:  The trajectory prediction is a critical and challenging problem in the design of an autonomous driving system. Many AI-oriented companies, such as Google Waymo, Uber and DiDi, are investigating more accurate vehicle trajectory prediction algorithms. However, the prediction performance is governed by lots of entangled factors, such as the stochastic behaviors of surrounding vehicles, historical information of self-trajectory, and relative positions of neighbors, etc. In this paper, we propose a novel graph-based information sharing network (GISNet) that allows the information sharing between the target vehicle and its surrounding vehicles. Meanwhile, the model encodes the historical trajectory information of all the vehicles in the scene. Experiments are carried out on the public NGSIM US-101 and I-80 Dataset and the prediction performance is measured by the Root Mean Square Error (RMSE). The quantitative and qualitative experimental results show that our model significantly improves the trajectory prediction accuracy, by up to 50.00%, compared to existing models. 

Title: Pay attention! - Robustifying a Deep Visuomotor Policy through Task-Focused Attention
Abstract:  Several recent studies have demonstrated the promise of deep visuomotor policies for robot manipulator control. Despite impressive progress, these systems are known to be vulnerable to physical disturbances, such as accidental or adversarial bumps that make them drop the manipulated object. They also tend to be distracted by visual disturbances such as objects moving in the robot's field of view, even if the disturbance does not physically prevent the execution of the task. In this paper, we propose an approach for augmenting a deep visuomotor policy trained through demonstrations with Task Focused visual Attention (TFA). The manipulation task is specified with a natural language text such as `move the red bowl to the left'. This allows the visual attention component to concentrate on the current object that the robot needs to manipulate. We show that even in benign environments, the TFA allows the policy to consistently outperform a variant with no attention mechanism. More importantly, the new policy is significantly more robust: it regularly recovers from severe physical disturbances (such as bumps causing it to drop the object) from which the baseline policy, i.e. with no visual attention, almost never recovers. In addition, we show that the proposed policy performs correctly in the presence of a wide class of visual disturbances, exhibiting a behavior reminiscent of human selective visual attention experiments. Our proposed approach consists of a VAE-GAN network which encodes the visual input and feeds it to a Motor network that moves the robot joints. Also, our approach benefits from a teacher network for the TFA that leverages textual input command to robustify the visual encoder against various types of disturbances. 

Title: Bio-Inspired Foveated Technique for Augmented-Range Vehicle Detection Using Deep Neural Networks
Abstract:  We propose a bio-inspired foveated technique to detect cars in a long range camera view using a deep convolutional neural network (DCNN) for the IARA self-driving car. The DCNN receives as input (i) an image, which is captured by a camera installed on IARA's roof; and (ii) crops of the image, which are centered in the waypoints computed by IARA's path planner and whose sizes increase with the distance from IARA. We employ an overlap filter to discard detections of the same car in different crops of the same image based on the percentage of overlap of detections' bounding boxes. We evaluated the performance of the proposed augmented-range vehicle detection system (ARVDS) using the hardware and software infrastructure available in the IARA self-driving car. Using IARA, we captured thousands of images of real traffic situations containing cars in a long range. Experimental results show that ARVDS increases the Average Precision (AP) of long range car detection from 29.51% (using a single whole image) to 63.15%. 

Title: Tuning Modular Networks with Weighted Losses for Hand-Eye Coordination
Abstract:  This paper introduces an end-to-end fine-tuning method to improve hand-eye coordination in modular deep visuo-motor policies (modular networks) where each module is trained independently. Benefiting from weighted losses, the fine-tuning method significantly improves the performance of the policies for a robotic planar reaching task. 

Title: A Comparison of Policy Search in Joint Space and Cartesian Space for Refinement of Skills
Abstract:  Imitation learning is a way to teach robots skills that are demonstrated by humans. Transfering skills between these different kinematic structures seems to be straightforward in Cartesian space. Because of the correspondence problem, however, the result will most likely not be identical. This is why refinement is required, for example, by policy search. Policy search in Cartesian space is prone to reachability problems when using conventional inverse kinematic solvers. We propose a configurable approximate inverse kinematic solver and show that it can accelerate the refinement process considerably. We also compare empirically refinement in Cartesian space and refinement in joint space. 

Title: Robust Deep Reinforcement Learning with Adversarial Attacks
Abstract:  This paper proposes adversarial attacks for Reinforcement Learning (RL) and then improves the robustness of Deep Reinforcement Learning algorithms (DRL) to parameter uncertainties with the help of these attacks. We show that even a naively engineered attack successfully degrades the performance of DRL algorithm. We further improve the attack using gradient information of an engineered loss function which leads to further degradation in performance. These attacks are then leveraged during training to improve the robustness of RL within robust control framework. We show that this adversarial training of DRL algorithms like Deep Double Q learning and Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients leads to significant increase in robustness to parameter variations for RL benchmarks such as Cart-pole, Mountain Car, Hopper and Half Cheetah environment. 

Title: IoT System for Real-Time Near-Crash Detection for Automated Vehicle Testing
Abstract:  Our world is moving towards the goal of fully autonomous driving at a fast pace. While the latest automated vehicles (AVs) can handle most real-world scenarios they encounter, a major bottleneck for turning fully autonomous driving into reality is the lack of sufficient corner case data for training and testing AVs. Near-crash data, as a widely used surrogate data for traffic safety research, can also serve the purpose of AV testing if properly collected. To this end, this paper proposes an Internet-of-Things (IoT) system for real-time near-crash data collection. The system has several cool features. First, it is a low-cost and standalone system that is backward-compatible with any existing vehicles. People can fix the system to their dashboards for near-crash data collection and collision warning without the approval or help of vehicle manufacturers. Second, we propose a new near-crash detection method that models the target's size changes and relative motions with the bounding boxes generated by deep-learning-based object detection and tracking. This near-crash detection method is fast, accurate, and reliable; particularly, it is insensitive to camera parameters, thereby having an excellent transferability to different dashboard cameras. We have conducted comprehensive experiments with 100 videos locally processed at Jetson, as well as real-world tests on cars and buses. Besides collecting corner cases, it can also serve as a white-box platform for testing innovative algorithms and evaluating other AV products. The system contributes to the real-world testing of AVs and has great potential to be brought into large-scale deployment. 

Title: Hearing What You Cannot See: Acoustic Detection Around Corners
Abstract:  This work proposes to use passive acoustic perception as an additional sensing modality for intelligent vehicles. We demonstrate that approaching vehicles behind blind corners can be detected by sound before such vehicles enter in line-of-sight. We have equipped a hybrid Prius research vehicle with a roof-mounted microphone array, and show on data collected with this sensor setup that wall reflections provide information on the presence and direction of approaching vehicles. A novel method is presented to classify if and from what direction a vehicle is approaching before it is visible, using as input Direction-of-Arrival features that can be efficiently computed from the streaming microphone array data. Since the ego-vehicle position within the local geometry affects the perceived patterns, we systematically study several locations and acoustic environments, and investigate generalization across these environments. With a static ego-vehicle, an accuracy of 92% is achieved on the hidden vehicle classification task, and approaching vehicles are on average detected correctly 2.25 seconds in advance. By stochastic exploring configurations using fewer microphones, we find that on par performance can be achieved with only 7 out of 56 available positions in the array. Finally, we demonstrate positive results on acoustic detection while the vehicle is driving, and study failure cases to identify future research directions. 

Title: KOVIS: Keypoint-based Visual Servoing with Zero-Shot Sim-to-Real Transfer for Robotics Manipulation
Abstract:  We present KOVIS, a novel learning-based, calibration-free visual servoing method for fine robotic manipulation tasks with eye-in-hand stereo camera system. We train the deep neural network only in the simulated environment; and the trained model could be directly used for real-world visual servoing tasks. KOVIS consists of two networks. The first keypoint network learns the keypoint representation from the image using with an autoencoder. Then the visual servoing network learns the motion based on keypoints extracted from the camera image. The two networks are trained end-to-end in the simulated environment by self-supervised learning without manual data labeling. After training with data augmentation, domain randomization, and adversarial examples, we are able to achieve zero-shot sim-to-real transfer to real-world robotic manipulation tasks. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method in both simulated environment and real-world experiment with different robotic manipulation tasks, including grasping, peg-in-hole insertion with 4mm clearance, and M13 screw insertion. The demo video is available at http://youtu.be/gfBJBR2tDzA 

Title: Real-Time Visual Tracking and Identification for a Team of Homogeneous Humanoid Robots
Abstract:  The use of a team of humanoid robots to collaborate in completing a task is an increasingly important field of research. One of the challenges in achieving collaboration, is mutual identification and tracking of the robots. This work presents a real-time vision-based approach to the detection and tracking of robots of known appearance, based on the images captured by a stationary robot. A Histogram of Oriented Gradients descriptor is used to detect the robots and the robot headings are estimated by a multiclass classifier. The tracked robots report their own heading estimate from magnetometer readings. For tracking, a cost function based on position and heading is applied to each of the tracklets, and a globally optimal labeling of the detected robots is found using the Hungarian algorithm. The complete identification and tracking system was tested using two igus Humanoid Open Platform robots on a soccer field. We expect that a similar system can be used with other humanoid robots, such as Nao and DARwIn-OP 

Title: Guided Feature Transformation (GFT): A Neural Language Grounding Module for Embodied Agents
Abstract:  Recently there has been a rising interest in training agents, embodied in virtual environments, to perform language-directed tasks by deep reinforcement learning. In this paper, we propose a simple but effective neural language grounding module for embodied agents that can be trained end to end from scratch taking raw pixels, unstructured linguistic commands, and sparse rewards as the inputs. We model the language grounding process as a language-guided transformation of visual features, where latent sentence embeddings are used as the transformation matrices. In several language-directed navigation tasks that feature challenging partial observability and require simple reasoning, our module significantly outperforms the state of the art. We also release XWorld3D, an easy-to-customize 3D environment that can potentially be modified to evaluate a variety of embodied agents. 

Title: AVID: Learning Multi-Stage Tasks via Pixel-Level Translation of Human Videos
Abstract:  Robotic reinforcement learning (RL) holds the promise of enabling robots to learn complex behaviors through experience. However, realizing this promise for long-horizon tasks in the real world requires mechanisms to reduce human burden in terms of defining the task and scaffolding the learning process. In this paper, we study how these challenges can be alleviated with an automated robotic learning framework, in which multi-stage tasks are defined simply by providing videos of a human demonstrator and then learned autonomously by the robot from raw image observations. A central challenge in imitating human videos is the difference in appearance between the human and robot, which typically requires manual correspondence. We instead take an automated approach and perform pixel-level image translation via CycleGAN to convert the human demonstration into a video of a robot, which can then be used to construct a reward function for a model-based RL algorithm. The robot then learns the task one stage at a time, automatically learning how to reset each stage to retry it multiple times without human-provided resets. This makes the learning process largely automatic, from intuitive task specification via a video to automated training with minimal human intervention. We demonstrate that our approach is capable of learning complex tasks, such as operating a coffee machine, directly from raw image observations, requiring only 20 minutes to provide human demonstrations and about 180 minutes of robot interaction. 

Title: Effects of a Social Force Model reward in Robot Navigation based on Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  In this paper is proposed an inclusion of the Social Force Model (SFM) into a concrete Deep Reinforcement Learning (RL) framework for robot navigation. These types of techniques have demonstrated to be useful to deal with different types of environments to achieve a goal. In Deep RL, a description of the world to describe the states and a reward adapted to the environment are crucial elements to get the desire behaviour and achieve a high performance. For this reason, this work adds a dense reward function based on SFM and uses the forces in the states like an additional description. Furthermore, obstacles are added to improve the behaviour of works that only consider moving agents. This SFM inclusion can offer a better description of the obstacles for the navigation. Several simulations have been done to check the effects of these modifications in the average performance. 

Title: VolMap: A Real-time Model for Semantic Segmentation of a LiDAR surrounding view
Abstract:  This paper introduces VolMap, a real-time approach for the semantic segmentation of a 3D LiDAR surrounding view system in autonomous vehicles. We designed an optimized deep convolution neural network that can accurately segment the point cloud produced by a 360\degree{} LiDAR setup, where the input consists of a volumetric bird-eye view with LiDAR height layers used as input channels. We further investigated the usage of multi-LiDAR setup and its effect on the performance of the semantic segmentation task. Our evaluations are carried out on a large scale 3D object detection benchmark containing a LiDAR cocoon setup, along with KITTI dataset, where the per-point segmentation labels are derived from 3D bounding boxes. We show that VolMap achieved an excellent balance between high accuracy and real-time running on CPU. 

Title: A Quick Review on Recent Trends in 3D Point Cloud Data Compression Techniques and the Challenges of Direct Processing in 3D Compressed Domain
Abstract:  Automatic processing of 3D Point Cloud data for object detection, tracking and segmentation is the latest trending research in the field of AI and Data Science, which is specifically aimed at solving different challenges of autonomous driving cars and getting real time performance. However, the amount of data that is being produced in the form of 3D point cloud (with LiDAR) is very huge, due to which the researchers are now on the way inventing new data compression algorithms to handle huge volumes of data thus generated. However, compression on one hand has an advantage in overcoming space requirements, but on the other hand, its processing gets expensive due to the decompression, which indents additional computing resources. Therefore, it would be novel to think of developing algorithms that can operate/analyse directly with the compressed data without involving the stages of decompression and recompression (required as many times, the compressed data needs to be operated or analyzed). This research field is termed as Compressed Domain Processing. In this paper, we will quickly review few of the recent state-of-the-art developments in the area of LiDAR generated 3D point cloud data compression, and highlight the future challenges of compressed domain processing of 3D point cloud data. 

Title: Active model learning and diverse action sampling for task and motion planning
Abstract:  The objective of this work is to augment the basic abilities of a robot by learning to use new sensorimotor primitives to enable the solution of complex long-horizon problems. Solving long-horizon problems in complex domains requires flexible generative planning that can combine primitive abilities in novel combinations to solve problems as they arise in the world. In order to plan to combine primitive actions, we must have models of the preconditions and effects of those actions: under what circumstances will executing this primitive achieve some particular effect in the world? We use, and develop novel improvements on, state-of-the-art methods for active learning and sampling. We use Gaussian process methods for learning the conditions of operator effectiveness from small numbers of expensive training examples collected by experimentation on a robot. We develop adaptive sampling methods for generating diverse elements of continuous sets (such as robot configurations and object poses) during planning for solving a new task, so that planning is as efficient as possible. We demonstrate these methods in an integrated system, combining newly learned models with an efficient continuous-space robot task and motion planner to learn to solve long horizon problems more efficiently than was previously possible. 

Title: Egocentric Spatial Memory
Abstract:  Egocentric spatial memory (ESM) defines a memory system with encoding, storing, recognizing and recalling the spatial information about the environment from an egocentric perspective. We introduce an integrated deep neural network architecture for modeling ESM. It learns to estimate the occupancy state of the world and progressively construct top-down 2D global maps from egocentric views in a spatially extended environment. During the exploration, our proposed ESM model updates belief of the global map based on local observations using a recurrent neural network. It also augments the local mapping with a novel external memory to encode and store latent representations of the visited places over long-term exploration in large environments which enables agents to perform place recognition and hence, loop closure. Our proposed ESM network contributes in the following aspects: (1) without feature engineering, our model predicts free space based on egocentric views efficiently in an end-to-end manner; (2) different from other deep learning-based mapping system, ESMN deals with continuous actions and states which is vitally important for robotic control in real applications. In the experiments, we demonstrate its accurate and robust global mapping capacities in 3D virtual mazes and realistic indoor environments by comparing with several competitive baselines. 

Title: Learning to Remove Multipath Distortions in Time-of-Flight Range Images for a Robotic Arm Setup
Abstract:  Range images captured by Time-of-Flight (ToF) cameras are corrupted with multipath distortions due to interaction between modulated light signals and scenes. The interaction is often complicated, which makes a model-based solution elusive. We propose a learning-based approach for removing the multipath distortions for a ToF camera in a robotic arm setup. Our approach is based on deep learning. We use the robotic arm to automatically collect a large amount of ToF range images containing various multipath distortions. The training images are automatically labeled by leveraging a high precision structured light sensor available only in the training time. In the test time, we apply the learned model to remove the multipath distortions. This allows our robotic arm setup to enjoy the speed and compact form of the ToF camera without compromising with its range measurement errors. We conduct extensive experimental validations and compare the proposed method to several baseline algorithms. The experiment results show that our method achieves 55% error reduction in range estimation and largely outperforms the baseline algorithms. 

Title: VALUE: Large Scale Voting-based Automatic Labelling for Urban Environments
Abstract:  This paper presents a simple and robust method for the automatic localisation of static 3D objects in large-scale urban environments. By exploiting the potential to merge a large volume of noisy but accurately localised 2D image data, we achieve superior performance in terms of both robustness and accuracy of the recovered 3D information. The method is based on a simple distributed voting schema which can be fully distributed and parallelised to scale to large-scale scenarios. To evaluate the method we collected city-scale data sets from New York City and San Francisco consisting of almost 400k images spanning the area of 40 km$^2$ and used it to accurately recover the 3D positions of traffic lights. We demonstrate a robust performance and also show that the solution improves in quality over time as the amount of data increases. 

Title: Motion Planning Of an Autonomous Mobile Robot Using Artificial Neural Network
Abstract:  The paper presents the electronic design and motion planning of a robot based on decision making regarding its straight motion and precise turn using Artificial Neural Network (ANN). The ANN helps in learning of robot so that it performs motion autonomously. The weights calculated are implemented in microcontroller. The performance has been tested to be excellent. 

Title: Smart depth of field optimization applied to a robotised view camera
Abstract:  The great flexibility of a view camera allows to take high quality photographs that would not be possible any other way. But making a given object into focus is a long and tedious task, although the underlying laws are well known. This paper presents the result of a project which has lead to the design of a computer controlled view camera and to its companion software. Thanks to the high precision machining of its components, and to the known optical parameters of lenses and sensor, we have been able to consider a reliable mathematical model of the view camera, allowing the acquisition of 3D coordinates to build a geometrical model of the object. Then many problems can be solved, e.g. minimizing the f-number while maintaining the object within the depth of field, which takes the form of a constrained optimization problem. All optimization algorithms have been validated on a virtual view camera before implementation on the prototype 

Title: Benchmarking Reinforcement Learning Algorithms on Real-World Robots
Abstract:  Through many recent successes in simulation, model-free reinforcement learning has emerged as a promising approach to solving continuous control robotic tasks. The research community is now able to reproduce, analyze and build quickly on these results due to open source implementations of learning algorithms and simulated benchmark tasks. To carry forward these successes to real-world applications, it is crucial to withhold utilizing the unique advantages of simulations that do not transfer to the real world and experiment directly with physical robots. However, reinforcement learning research with physical robots faces substantial resistance due to the lack of benchmark tasks and supporting source code. In this work, we introduce several reinforcement learning tasks with multiple commercially available robots that present varying levels of learning difficulty, setup, and repeatability. On these tasks, we test the learning performance of off-the-shelf implementations of four reinforcement learning algorithms and analyze sensitivity to their hyper-parameters to determine their readiness for applications in various real-world tasks. Our results show that with a careful setup of the task interface and computations, some of these implementations can be readily applicable to physical robots. We find that state-of-the-art learning algorithms are highly sensitive to their hyper-parameters and their relative ordering does not transfer across tasks, indicating the necessity of re-tuning them for each task for best performance. On the other hand, the best hyper-parameter configuration from one task may often result in effective learning on held-out tasks even with different robots, providing a reasonable default. We make the benchmark tasks publicly available to enhance reproducibility in real-world reinforcement learning. 

Title: Trajectron++: Dynamically-Feasible Trajectory Forecasting With Heterogeneous Data
Abstract:  Reasoning about human motion is an important prerequisite to safe and socially-aware robotic navigation. As a result, multi-agent behavior prediction has become a core component of modern human-robot interactive systems, such as self-driving cars. While there exist many methods for trajectory forecasting, most do not enforce dynamic constraints and do not account for environmental information (e.g., maps). Towards this end, we present Trajectron++, a modular, graph-structured recurrent model that forecasts the trajectories of a general number of diverse agents while incorporating agent dynamics and heterogeneous data (e.g., semantic maps). Trajectron++ is designed to be tightly integrated with robotic planning and control frameworks; for example, it can produce predictions that are optionally conditioned on ego-agent motion plans. We demonstrate its performance on several challenging real-world trajectory forecasting datasets, outperforming a wide array of state-of-the-art deterministic and generative methods. 

Title: Off-Policy Adversarial Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Adversarial Imitation Learning (AIL) is a class of algorithms in Reinforcement learning (RL), which tries to imitate an expert without taking any reward from the environment and does not provide expert behavior directly to the policy training. Rather, an agent learns a policy distribution that minimizes the difference from expert behavior in an adversarial setting. Adversarial Inverse Reinforcement Learning (AIRL) leverages the idea of AIL, integrates a reward function approximation along with learning the policy, and shows the utility of IRL in the transfer learning setting. But the reward function approximator that enables transfer learning does not perform well in imitation tasks. We propose an Off-Policy Adversarial Inverse Reinforcement Learning (Off-policy-AIRL) algorithm which is sample efficient as well as gives good imitation performance compared to the state-of-the-art AIL algorithm in the continuous control tasks. For the same reward function approximator, we show the utility of learning our algorithm over AIL by using the learned reward function to retrain the policy over a task under significant variation where expert demonstrations are absent. 

Title: MonoLayout: Amodal scene layout from a single image
Abstract:  In this paper, we address the novel, highly challenging problem of estimating the layout of a complex urban driving scenario. Given a single color image captured from a driving platform, we aim to predict the bird's-eye view layout of the road and other traffic participants. The estimated layout should reason beyond what is visible in the image, and compensate for the loss of 3D information due to projection. We dub this problem amodal scene layout estimation, which involves "hallucinating" scene layout for even parts of the world that are occluded in the image. To this end, we present MonoLayout, a deep neural network for real-time amodal scene layout estimation from a single image. We represent scene layout as a multi-channel semantic occupancy grid, and leverage adversarial feature learning to hallucinate plausible completions for occluded image parts. Due to the lack of fair baseline methods, we extend several state-of-the-art approaches for road-layout estimation and vehicle occupancy estimation in bird's-eye view to the amodal setup for rigorous evaluation. By leveraging temporal sensor fusion to generate training labels, we significantly outperform current art over a number of datasets. On the KITTI and Argoverse datasets, we outperform all baselines by a significant margin. We also make all our annotations, and code publicly available. A video abstract of this paper is available https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HcroGyo6yRQ . 

Title: Visual Imitation Learning with Recurrent Siamese Networks
Abstract:  It would be desirable for a reinforcement learning (RL) based agent to learn behaviour by merely watching a demonstration. However, defining rewards that facilitate this goal within the RL paradigm remains a challenge. Here we address this problem with Siamese networks, trained to compute distances between observed behaviours and the agent's behaviours. Given a desired motion such Siamese networks can be used to provide a reward signal to an RL agent via the distance between the desired motion and the agent's motion. We experiment with an RNN-based comparator model that can compute distances in space and time between motion clips while training an RL policy to minimize this distance. Through experimentation, we have had also found that the inclusion of multi-task data and an additional image encoding loss helps enforce the temporal consistency. These two components appear to balance reward for matching a specific instance of behaviour versus that behaviour in general. Furthermore, we focus here on a particularly challenging form of this problem where only a single demonstration is provided for a given task -- the one-shot learning setting. We demonstrate our approach on humanoid agents in both 2D with $10$ degrees of freedom (DoF) and 3D with $38$ DoF. 

Title: Unsupervised Visuomotor Control through Distributional Planning Networks
Abstract:  While reinforcement learning (RL) has the potential to enable robots to autonomously acquire a wide range of skills, in practice, RL usually requires manual, per-task engineering of reward functions, especially in real world settings where aspects of the environment needed to compute progress are not directly accessible. To enable robots to autonomously learn skills, we instead consider the problem of reinforcement learning without access to rewards. We aim to learn an unsupervised embedding space under which the robot can measure progress towards a goal for itself. Our approach explicitly optimizes for a metric space under which action sequences that reach a particular state are optimal when the goal is the final state reached. This enables learning effective and control-centric representations that lead to more autonomous reinforcement learning algorithms. Our experiments on three simulated environments and two real-world manipulation problems show that our method can learn effective goal metrics from unlabeled interaction, and use the learned goal metrics for autonomous reinforcement learning. 

Title: Imitation Learning with Sinkhorn Distances
Abstract:  Imitation learning algorithms have been interpreted as variants of divergence minimization problems. The ability to compare occupancy measures between experts and learners is crucial in their effectiveness in learning from demonstrations. In this paper, we present tractable solutions by formulating imitation learning as minimization of the Sinkhorn distance between occupancy measures. The formulation combines the valuable properties of optimal transport metrics in comparing non-overlapping distributions with a cosine distance cost defined in an adversarially learned feature space. This leads to a highly discriminative critic network and optimal transport plan that subsequently guide imitation learning. We evaluate the proposed approach using both the reward metric and the Sinkhorn distance metric on a number of MuJoCo experiments. 

Title: Universal Memory Architectures for Autonomous Machines
Abstract:  We propose a self-organizing memory architecture for perceptual experience, capable of supporting autonomous learning and goal-directed problem solving in the absence of any prior information about the agent's environment. The architecture is simple enough to ensure (1) a quadratic bound (in the number of available sensors) on space requirements, and (2) a quadratic bound on the time-complexity of the update-execute cycle. At the same time, it is sufficiently complex to provide the agent with an internal representation which is (3) minimal among all representations of its class which account for every sensory equivalence class subject to the agent's belief state; (4) capable, in principle, of recovering the homotopy type of the system's state space; (5) learnable with arbitrary precision through a random application of the available actions. The provable properties of an effectively trained memory structure exploit a duality between weak poc sets -- a symbolic (discrete) representation of subset nesting relations -- and non-positively curved cubical complexes, whose rich convexity theory underlies the planning cycle of the proposed architecture. 

Title: The BURCHAK corpus: a Challenge Data Set for Interactive Learning of Visually Grounded Word Meanings
Abstract:  We motivate and describe a new freely available human-human dialogue dataset for interactive learning of visually grounded word meanings through ostensive definition by a tutor to a learner. The data has been collected using a novel, character-by-character variant of the DiET chat tool (Healey et al., 2003; Mills and Healey, submitted) with a novel task, where a Learner needs to learn invented visual attribute words (such as " burchak " for square) from a tutor. As such, the text-based interactions closely resemble face-to-face conversation and thus contain many of the linguistic phenomena encountered in natural, spontaneous dialogue. These include self-and other-correction, mid-sentence continuations, interruptions, overlaps, fillers, and hedges. We also present a generic n-gram framework for building user (i.e. tutor) simulations from this type of incremental data, which is freely available to researchers. We show that the simulations produce outputs that are similar to the original data (e.g. 78% turn match similarity). Finally, we train and evaluate a Reinforcement Learning dialogue control agent for learning visually grounded word meanings, trained from the BURCHAK corpus. The learned policy shows comparable performance to a rule-based system built previously. 

Title: Inferring Distributions Over Depth from a Single Image
Abstract:  When building a geometric scene understanding system for autonomous vehicles, it is crucial to know when the system might fail. Most contemporary approaches cast the problem as depth regression, whose output is a depth value for each pixel. Such approaches cannot diagnose when failures might occur. One attractive alternative is a deep Bayesian network, which captures uncertainty in both model parameters and ambiguous sensor measurements. However, estimating uncertainties is often slow and the distributions are often limited to be uni-modal. In this paper, we recast the continuous problem of depth regression as discrete binary classification, whose output is an un-normalized distribution over possible depths for each pixel. Such output allows one to reliably and efficiently capture multi-modal depth distributions in ambiguous cases, such as depth discontinuities and reflective surfaces. Results on standard benchmarks show that our method produces accurate depth predictions and significantly better uncertainty estimations than prior art while running near real-time. Finally, by making use of uncertainties of the predicted distribution, we significantly reduce streak-like artifacts and improves accuracy as well as memory efficiency in 3D map reconstruction. 

Title: BatVision with GCC-PHAT Features for Better Sound to Vision Predictions
Abstract:  Inspired by sophisticated echolocation abilities found in nature, we train a generative adversarial network to predict plausible depth maps and grayscale layouts from sound. To achieve this, our sound-to-vision model processes binaural echo-returns from chirping sounds. We build upon previous work with BatVision that consists of a sound-to-vision model and a self-collected dataset using our mobile robot and low-cost hardware. We improve on the previous model by introducing several changes to the model, which leads to a better depth and grayscale estimation, and increased perceptual quality. Rather than using raw binaural waveforms as input, we generate generalized cross-correlation (GCC) features and use these as input instead. In addition, we change the model generator and base it on residual learning and use spectral normalization in the discriminator. We compare and present both quantitative and qualitative improvements over our previous BatVision model. 

Title: Closed-Form Full Map Posteriors for Robot Localization with Lidar Sensors
Abstract:  A popular class of lidar-based grid mapping algorithms computes for each map cell the probability that it reflects an incident laser beam. These algorithms typically determine the map as the set of reflection probabilities that maximizes the likelihood of the underlying laser data and do not compute the full posterior distribution over all possible maps. Thereby, they discard crucial information about the confidence of the estimate. The approach presented in this paper preserves this information by determining the full map posterior. In general, this problem is hard because distributions over real-valued quantities can possess infinitely many dimensions. However, for two state-of-the-art beam-based lidar models, our approach yields closed-form map posteriors that possess only two parameters per cell. Even better, these posteriors come for free, in the sense that they use the same parameters as the traditional approaches, without the need for additional computations. An important use case for grid maps is robot localization, which we formulate as Bayesian filtering based on the closed-form map posterior rather than based on a single map. The resulting measurement likelihoods can also be expressed in closed form. In simulations and extensive real-world experiments, we show that leveraging the full map posterior improves the localization accuracy compared to approaches that use the most likely map. 

Title: Asynchronous, Photometric Feature Tracking using Events and Frames
Abstract:  We present a method that leverages the complementarity of event cameras and standard cameras to track visual features with low-latency. Event cameras are novel sensors that output pixel-level brightness changes, called "events". They offer significant advantages over standard cameras, namely a very high dynamic range, no motion blur, and a latency in the order of microseconds. However, because the same scene pattern can produce different events depending on the motion direction, establishing event correspondences across time is challenging. By contrast, standard cameras provide intensity measurements (frames) that do not depend on motion direction. Our method extracts features on frames and subsequently tracks them asynchronously using events, thereby exploiting the best of both types of data: the frames provide a photometric representation that does not depend on motion direction and the events provide low-latency updates. In contrast to previous works, which are based on heuristics, this is the first principled method that uses raw intensity measurements directly, based on a generative event model within a maximum-likelihood framework. As a result, our method produces feature tracks that are both more accurate (subpixel accuracy) and longer than the state of the art, across a wide variety of scenes. 

Title: Autonomous Vehicles that Interact with Pedestrians: A Survey of Theory and Practice
Abstract:  One of the major challenges that autonomous cars are facing today is driving in urban environments. To make it a reality, autonomous vehicles require the ability to communicate with other road users and understand their intentions. Such interactions are essential between the vehicles and pedestrians as the most vulnerable road users. Understanding pedestrian behavior, however, is not intuitive and depends on various factors such as demographics of the pedestrians, traffic dynamics, environmental conditions, etc. In this paper, we identify these factors by surveying pedestrian behavior studies, both the classical works on pedestrian-driver interaction and the modern ones that involve autonomous vehicles. To this end, we will discuss various methods of studying pedestrian behavior, and analyze how the factors identified in the literature are interrelated. We will also review the practical applications aimed at solving the interaction problem including design approaches for autonomous vehicles that communicate with pedestrians and visual perception and reasoning algorithms tailored to understanding pedestrian intention. Based on our findings, we will discuss the open problems and propose future research directions. 

Title: An Overview of Perception Methods for Horticultural Robots: From Pollination to Harvest
Abstract:  Horticultural enterprises are becoming more sophisticated as the range of the crops they target expands. Requirements for enhanced efficiency and productivity have driven the demand for automating on-field operations. However, various problems remain yet to be solved for their reliable, safe deployment in real-world scenarios. This paper examines major research trends and current challenges in horticultural robotics. Specifically, our work focuses on sensing and perception in the three main horticultural procedures: pollination, yield estimation, and harvesting. For each task, we expose major issues arising from the unstructured, cluttered, and rugged nature of field environments, including variable lighting conditions and difficulties in fruit-specific detection, and highlight promising contemporary studies. 

Title: Quaternion Based Camera Pose Estimation From Matched Feature Points
Abstract:  We present a novel solution to the camera pose estimation problem, where rotation and translation of a camera between two views are estimated from matched feature points in the images. The camera pose estimation problem is traditionally solved via algorithms that are based on the essential matrix or the Euclidean homography. With six or more feature points in general positions in the space, essential matrix based algorithms can recover a unique solution. However, such algorithms fail when points are on critical surfaces (e.g., coplanar points) and homography should be used instead. By formulating the problem in quaternions and decoupling the rotation and translation estimation, our proposed algorithm works for all point configurations. Using both simulated and real world images, we compare the estimation accuracy of our algorithm with some of the most commonly used algorithms. Our method is shown to be more robust to noise and outliers. For the benefit of community, we have made the implementation of our algorithm available online and free. 

Title: Factor Graph based 3D Multi-Object Tracking in Point Clouds
Abstract:  Accurate and reliable tracking of multiple moving objects in 3D space is an essential component of urban scene understanding. This is a challenging task because it requires the assignment of detections in the current frame to the predicted objects from the previous one. Existing filter-based approaches tend to struggle if this initial assignment is not correct, which can happen easily. We propose a novel optimization-based approach that does not rely on explicit and fixed assignments. Instead, we represent the result of an off-the-shelf 3D object detector as Gaussian mixture model, which is incorporated in a factor graph framework. This gives us the flexibility to assign all detections to all objects simultaneously. As a result, the assignment problem is solved implicitly and jointly with the 3D spatial multi-object state estimation using non-linear least squares optimization. Despite its simplicity, the proposed algorithm achieves robust and reliable tracking results and can be applied for offline as well as online tracking. We demonstrate its performance on the real world KITTI tracking dataset and achieve better results than many state-of-the-art algorithms. Especially the consistency of the estimated tracks is superior offline as well as online. 

Title: Imagine That! Leveraging Emergent Affordances for 3D Tool Synthesis
Abstract:  In this paper we explore the richness of information captured by the latent space of a vision-based generative model -- and how to exploit it. The context of our work is an artificial agent's ability to perform task-focused tool synthesis for 3D reaching tasks based purely on 2D visual inputs. In particular, given visual observations of a reaching task and a proposed tool, our approach employs activation maximisation of a task-based performance predictor to directly optimise the 3D geometry of the tool by traversing a learnt latent space. While the embedding learned by the generative model captures the factors of variation in 3D tool geometry, e.g. length, width and configuration, the performance predictor identifies sub-manifolds correlated with task success in a weakly supervised manner. Using a 3D simulation environment, we demonstrate that traversing the latent space in this task-driven way results in tool geometries appropriate for the task at hand. Our results therefore suggest that affordances -- like the utility for reaching -- are encoded along smooth trajectories in the learned latent space. Accessing these emergent affordances via gradient descent considering only high-level performance criteria (such as task success) enables the agent to manipulate tool geometries in a targeted and deliberate way. https://ori.ox.ac.uk/tool_imagination/ 

Title: Exponential Natural Particle Filter
Abstract:  Particle Filter algorithm (PF) suffers from some problems such as the loss of particle diversity, the need for large number of particles, and the costly selection of the importance density functions. In this paper, a novel Exponential Natural Particle Filter (xNPF) is introduced to solve the above problems. In this approach, a state transitional probability with the use of natural gradient learning is proposed which balances exploration and exploitation more robustly. The results show that xNPF converges much closer to the true target states than the other state of the art particle filter. 

Title: Driving Policy Transfer via Modularity and Abstraction
Abstract:  End-to-end approaches to autonomous driving have high sample complexity and are difficult to scale to realistic urban driving. Simulation can help end-to-end driving systems by providing a cheap, safe, and diverse training environment. Yet training driving policies in simulation brings up the problem of transferring such policies to the real world. We present an approach to transferring driving policies from simulation to reality via modularity and abstraction. Our approach is inspired by classic driving systems and aims to combine the benefits of modular architectures and end-to-end deep learning approaches. The key idea is to encapsulate the driving policy such that it is not directly exposed to raw perceptual input or low-level vehicle dynamics. We evaluate the presented approach in simulated urban environments and in the real world. In particular, we transfer a driving policy trained in simulation to a 1/5-scale robotic truck that is deployed in a variety of conditions, with no finetuning, on two continents. The supplementary video can be viewed at https://youtu.be/BrMDJqI6H5U 

Title: Robobarista: Object Part based Transfer of Manipulation Trajectories from Crowd-sourcing in 3D Pointclouds
Abstract:  There is a large variety of objects and appliances in human environments, such as stoves, coffee dispensers, juice extractors, and so on. It is challenging for a roboticist to program a robot for each of these object types and for each of their instantiations. In this work, we present a novel approach to manipulation planning based on the idea that many household objects share similarly-operated object parts. We formulate the manipulation planning as a structured prediction problem and design a deep learning model that can handle large noise in the manipulation demonstrations and learns features from three different modalities: point-clouds, language and trajectory. In order to collect a large number of manipulation demonstrations for different objects, we developed a new crowd-sourcing platform called Robobarista. We test our model on our dataset consisting of 116 objects with 249 parts along with 250 language instructions, for which there are 1225 crowd-sourced manipulation demonstrations. We further show that our robot can even manipulate objects it has never seen before. 

Title: Split Deep Q-Learning for Robust Object Singulation
Abstract:  Extracting a known target object from a pile of other objects in a cluttered environment is a challenging robotic manipulation task encountered in many robotic applications. In such conditions, the target object touches or is covered by adjacent obstacle objects, thus rendering traditional grasping techniques ineffective. In this paper, we propose a pushing policy aiming at singulating the target object from its surrounding clutter, by means of lateral pushing movements of both the neighboring objects and the target object until sufficient 'grasping room' has been achieved. To achieve the above goal we employ reinforcement learning and particularly Deep Q-learning (DQN) to learn optimal push policies by trial and error. A novel Split DQN is proposed to improve the learning rate and increase the modularity of the algorithm. Experiments show that although learning is performed in a simulated environment the transfer of learned policies to a real environment is effective thanks to robust feature selection. Finally, we demonstrate that the modularity of the algorithm allows the addition of extra primitives without retraining the model from scratch. 

Title: Multisensory Learning Framework for Robot Drumming
Abstract:  The hype about sensorimotor learning is currently reaching high fever, thanks to the latest advancement in deep learning. In this paper, we present an open-source framework for collecting large-scale, time-synchronised synthetic data from highly disparate sensory modalities, such as audio, video, and proprioception, for learning robot manipulation tasks. We demonstrate the learning of non-linear sensorimotor mappings for a humanoid drumming robot that generates novel motion sequences from desired audio data using cross-modal correspondences. We evaluate our system through the quality of its cross-modal retrieval, for generating suitable motion sequences to match desired unseen audio or video sequences. 

Title: Multi-Objective Autonomous Braking System using Naturalistic Dataset
Abstract:  A deep reinforcement learning based multi-objective autonomous braking system is presented. The design of the system is formulated in a continuous action space and seeks to maximize both pedestrian safety and perception as well as passenger comfort. The vehicle agent is trained against a large naturalistic dataset containing pedestrian road-crossing trials in which respondents walked across a road under various traffic conditions within an interactive virtual reality environment. The policy for brake control is learned through computer simulation using two reinforcement learning methods i.e. Proximal Policy Optimization and Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient and the efficiency of each are compared. Results show that the system is able to reduce the negative influence on passenger comfort by half while maintaining safe braking operation. 

Title: Hierarchical Deep Stereo Matching on High-resolution Images
Abstract:  We explore the problem of real-time stereo matching on high-res imagery. Many state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods struggle to process high-res imagery because of memory constraints or speed limitations. To address this issue, we propose an end-to-end framework that searches for correspondences incrementally over a coarse-to-fine hierarchy. Because high-res stereo datasets are relatively rare, we introduce a dataset with high-res stereo pairs for both training and evaluation. Our approach achieved SOTA performance on Middlebury-v3 and KITTI-15 while running significantly faster than its competitors. The hierarchical design also naturally allows for anytime on-demand reports of disparity by capping intermediate coarse results, allowing us to accurately predict disparity for near-range structures with low latency (30ms). We demonstrate that the performance-vs-speed trade-off afforded by on-demand hierarchies may address sensing needs for time-critical applications such as autonomous driving. 

Title: Learning a Representation Map for Robot Navigation using Deep Variational Autoencoder
Abstract:  The aim of this work is to use Variational Autoencoder (VAE) to learn a representation of an indoor environment that can be used for robot navigation. We use images extracted from a video, in which a camera takes a tour around a house, for training the VAE model with a 4 dimensional latent space. After the model is trained, each real frame has a corresponding representation point on manifold in the latent space, and each representation point has corresponding reconstructed image. For the navigation problem, we map the starting image and destination image to the latent space, then optimize a path on the learned manifold connecting the two points, and finally map the path back through decoder to a sequence of images. The ideal sequence of images should correspond to a route that is spatially continuous - i.e. neighbor images in the route should correspond to neighbor locations in physical space. Such a route could be used for navigation with computer vision techniques, i.e. a robot could follow the image sequence from starting location to destination in the environment step by step. We implement this algorithm, but find in our experimental results that the resulting route is not satisfactory. The route consist of several discontinuous image frames along the ideal routes, so that the route could not be followed by a robot with computer vision techniques in practice. In our evaluation, we propose two reasons for our failure to automatically find continuous routes: (1) The VAE tends to capture global structures, but discard the details; (2) the Euclidean similarity metric used for measuring continuity between house images is sub-optimal. For further work, we propose: trying other generative models like VAE-GANs which may be better at reconstructing the details to learn the representation map, and adjusting the similarity metric in the path selecting algorithm. 

Title: nuScenes: A multimodal dataset for autonomous driving
Abstract:  Robust detection and tracking of objects is crucial for the deployment of autonomous vehicle technology. Image based benchmark datasets have driven development in computer vision tasks such as object detection, tracking and segmentation of agents in the environment. Most autonomous vehicles, however, carry a combination of cameras and range sensors such as lidar and radar. As machine learning based methods for detection and tracking become more prevalent, there is a need to train and evaluate such methods on datasets containing range sensor data along with images. In this work we present nuTonomy scenes (nuScenes), the first dataset to carry the full autonomous vehicle sensor suite: 6 cameras, 5 radars and 1 lidar, all with full 360 degree field of view. nuScenes comprises 1000 scenes, each 20s long and fully annotated with 3D bounding boxes for 23 classes and 8 attributes. It has 7x as many annotations and 100x as many images as the pioneering KITTI dataset. We define novel 3D detection and tracking metrics. We also provide careful dataset analysis as well as baselines for lidar and image based detection and tracking. Data, development kit and more information are available online. 

Title: Randomized Algorithms for Data-Driven Stabilization of Stochastic Linear Systems
Abstract:  Data-driven control strategies for dynamical systems with unknown parameters are popular in theory and applications. An essential problem is to prevent stochastic linear systems becoming destabilized, due to the uncertainty of the decision-maker about the dynamical parameter. Two randomized algorithms are proposed for this problem, but the performance is not sufficiently investigated. Further, the effect of key parameters of the algorithms such as the magnitude and the frequency of applying the randomizations is not currently available. This work studies the stabilization speed and the failure probability of data-driven procedures. We provide numerical analyses for the performance of two methods: stochastic feedback, and stochastic parameter. The presented results imply that as long as the number of statistically independent randomizations is not too small, fast stabilization is guaranteed. 

Title: Learning-based Bias Correction for Ultra-wideband Localization of Resource-constrained Mobile Robots
Abstract:  Accurate indoor localization is a crucial enabling technology for many robotics applications, from warehouse management to monitoring tasks. Ultra-wideband (UWB) ranging is a promising solution which is low-cost, lightweight, and computationally inexpensive compared to alternative state-of-the-art approaches such as simultaneous localization and mapping, making it especially suited for resource-constrained aerial robots. Many commercially-available ultra-wideband radios, however, provide inaccurate, biased range measurements. In this article, we propose a bias correction framework compatible with both two-way ranging and time difference of arrival ultra-wideband localization. Our method comprises of two steps: (i) statistical outlier rejection and (ii) a learning-based bias correction. This approach is scalable and frugal enough to be deployed on-board a nano-quadcopter's microcontroller. Previous research mostly focused on two-way ranging bias correction and has not been implemented in closed-loop nor using resource-constrained robots. Experimental results show that, using our approach, the localization error is reduced by ~18.5% and 48% (for TWR and TDoA, respectively), and a quadcopter can accurately track trajectories with position information from UWB only. 

Title: Identifying Mechanical Models through Differentiable Simulations
Abstract:  This paper proposes a new method for manipulating unknown objects through a sequence of non-prehensile actions that displace an object from its initial configuration to a given goal configuration on a flat surface. The proposed method leverages recent progress in differentiable physics models to identify unknown mechanical properties of manipulated objects, such as inertia matrix, friction coefficients and external forces acting on the object. To this end, a recently proposed differentiable physics engine for two-dimensional objects is adopted in this work and extended to deal forces in the three-dimensional space. The proposed model identification technique analytically computes the gradient of the distance between forecasted poses of objects and their actual observed poses and utilizes that gradient to search for values of the mechanical properties that reduce the reality gap. Experiments with real objects using a real robot to gather data show that the proposed approach can identify the mechanical properties of heterogeneous objects on the fly. 

Title: Detection, localisation and tracking of pallets using machine learning techniques and 2D range data
Abstract:  The problem of autonomous transportation in industrial scenarios is receiving a renewed interest due to the way it can revolutionise internal logistics, especially in unstructured environments. This paper presents a novel architecture allowing a robot to detect, localise, and track (possibly multiple) pallets using machine learning techniques based on an on-board 2D laser rangefinder only. The architecture is composed of two main components: the first stage is a pallet detector employing a Faster Region-based Convolutional Neural Network (Faster R-CNN) detector cascaded with a CNN-based classifier; the second stage is a Kalman filter for localising and tracking detected pallets, which we also use to defer commitment to a pallet detected in the first stage until sufficient confidence has been acquired via a sequential data acquisition process. For fine-tuning the CNNs, the architecture has been systematically evaluated using a real-world dataset containing 340 labeled 2D scans, which have been made freely available in an online repository. Detection performance has been assessed on the basis of the average accuracy over k-fold cross-validation, and it scored 99.58% in our tests. Concerning pallet localisation and tracking, experiments have been performed in a scenario where the robot is approaching the pallet to fork. Although data have been originally acquired by considering only one pallet as per specification of the use case we consider, artificial data have been generated as well to mimic the presence of multiple pallets in the robot workspace. Our experimental results confirm that the system is capable of identifying, localising and tracking pallets with a high success rate while being robust to false positives. 

Title: An Adversarial Approach to Private Flocking in Mobile Robot Teams
Abstract:  Privacy is an important facet of defence against adversaries. In this letter, we introduce the problem of private flocking. We consider a team of mobile robots flocking in the presence of an adversary, who is able to observe all robots' trajectories, and who is interested in identifying the leader. We present a method that generates private flocking controllers that hide the identity of the leader robot. Our approach towards privacy leverages a data-driven adversarial co-optimization scheme. We design a mechanism that optimizes flocking control parameters, such that leader inference is hindered. As the flocking performance improves, we successively train an adversarial discriminator that tries to infer the identity of the leader robot. To evaluate the performance of our co-optimization scheme, we investigate different classes of reference trajectories. Although it is reasonable to assume that there is an inherent trade-off between flocking performance and privacy, our results demonstrate that we are able to achieve high flocking performance and simultaneously reduce the risk of revealing the leader. 

Title: Data-efficient Deep Reinforcement Learning for Dexterous Manipulation
Abstract:  Deep learning and reinforcement learning methods have recently been used to solve a variety of problems in continuous control domains. An obvious application of these techniques is dexterous manipulation tasks in robotics which are difficult to solve using traditional control theory or hand-engineered approaches. One example of such a task is to grasp an object and precisely stack it on another. Solving this difficult and practically relevant problem in the real world is an important long-term goal for the field of robotics. Here we take a step towards this goal by examining the problem in simulation and providing models and techniques aimed at solving it. We introduce two extensions to the Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient algorithm (DDPG), a model-free Q-learning based method, which make it significantly more data-efficient and scalable. Our results show that by making extensive use of off-policy data and replay, it is possible to find control policies that robustly grasp objects and stack them. Further, our results hint that it may soon be feasible to train successful stacking policies by collecting interactions on real robots. 

Title: Grasp2Vec: Learning Object Representations from Self-Supervised Grasping
Abstract:  Well structured visual representations can make robot learning faster and can improve generalization. In this paper, we study how we can acquire effective object-centric representations for robotic manipulation tasks without human labeling by using autonomous robot interaction with the environment. Such representation learning methods can benefit from continuous refinement of the representation as the robot collects more experience, allowing them to scale effectively without human intervention. Our representation learning approach is based on object persistence: when a robot removes an object from a scene, the representation of that scene should change according to the features of the object that was removed. We formulate an arithmetic relationship between feature vectors from this observation, and use it to learn a representation of scenes and objects that can then be used to identify object instances, localize them in the scene, and perform goal-directed grasping tasks where the robot must retrieve commanded objects from a bin. The same grasping procedure can also be used to automatically collect training data for our method, by recording images of scenes, grasping and removing an object, and recording the outcome. Our experiments demonstrate that this self-supervised approach for tasked grasping substantially outperforms direct reinforcement learning from images and prior representation learning methods. 

Title: Tracking Human-like Natural Motion Using Deep Recurrent Neural Networks
Abstract:  Kinect skeleton tracker is able to achieve considerable human body tracking performance in convenient and a low-cost manner. However, The tracker often captures unnatural human poses such as discontinuous and vibrated motions when self-occlusions occur. A majority of approaches tackle this problem by using multiple Kinect sensors in a workspace. Combination of the measurements from different sensors is then conducted in Kalman filter framework or optimization problem is formulated for sensor fusion. However, these methods usually require heuristics to measure reliability of measurements observed from each Kinect sensor. In this paper, we developed a method to improve Kinect skeleton using single Kinect sensor, in which supervised learning technique was employed to correct unnatural tracking motions. Specifically, deep recurrent neural networks were used for improving joint positions and velocities of Kinect skeleton, and three methods were proposed to integrate the refined positions and velocities for further enhancement. Moreover, we suggested a novel measure to evaluate naturalness of captured motions. We evaluated the proposed approach by comparison with the ground truth obtained using a commercial optical maker-based motion capture system. 

Title: Learning to Catch Piglets in Flight
Abstract:  Catching objects in-flight is an outstanding challenge in robotics. In this paper, we present a closed-loop control system fusing data from two sensor modalities: an RGB-D camera and a radar. To develop and test our method, we start with an easy to identify object: a stuffed Piglet. We implement and compare two approaches to detect and track the object, and to predict the interception point. A baseline model uses colour filtering for locating the thrown object in the environment, while the interception point is predicted using a least squares regression over the physical ballistic trajectory equations. A deep learning based method uses artificial neural networks for both object detection and interception point prediction. We show that we are able to successfully catch Piglet in 80% of the cases with our deep learning approach. 

Title: Efficient Exploration via State Marginal Matching
Abstract:  Exploration is critical to a reinforcement learning agent's performance in its given environment. Prior exploration methods are often based on using heuristic auxiliary predictions to guide policy behavior, lacking a mathematically-grounded objective with clear properties. In contrast, we recast exploration as a problem of State Marginal Matching (SMM), where we aim to learn a policy for which the state marginal distribution matches a given target state distribution. The target distribution is a uniform distribution in most cases, but can incorporate prior knowledge if available. In effect, SMM amortizes the cost of learning to explore in a given environment. The SMM objective can be viewed as a two-player, zero-sum game between a state density model and a parametric policy, an idea that we use to build an algorithm for optimizing the SMM objective. Using this formalism, we further demonstrate that prior work approximately maximizes the SMM objective, offering an explanation for the success of these methods. On both simulated and real-world tasks, we demonstrate that agents that directly optimize the SMM objective explore faster and adapt more quickly to new tasks as compared to prior exploration methods. 

Title: ClearGrasp: 3D Shape Estimation of Transparent Objects for Manipulation
Abstract:  Transparent objects are a common part of everyday life, yet they possess unique visual properties that make them incredibly difficult for standard 3D sensors to produce accurate depth estimates for. In many cases, they often appear as noisy or distorted approximations of the surfaces that lie behind them. To address these challenges, we present ClearGrasp -- a deep learning approach for estimating accurate 3D geometry of transparent objects from a single RGB-D image for robotic manipulation. Given a single RGB-D image of transparent objects, ClearGrasp uses deep convolutional networks to infer surface normals, masks of transparent surfaces, and occlusion boundaries. It then uses these outputs to refine the initial depth estimates for all transparent surfaces in the scene. To train and test ClearGrasp, we construct a large-scale synthetic dataset of over 50,000 RGB-D images, as well as a real-world test benchmark with 286 RGB-D images of transparent objects and their ground truth geometries. The experiments demonstrate that ClearGrasp is substantially better than monocular depth estimation baselines and is capable of generalizing to real-world images and novel objects. We also demonstrate that ClearGrasp can be applied out-of-the-box to improve grasping algorithms' performance on transparent objects. Code, data, and benchmarks will be released. Supplementary materials available on the project website: https://sites.google.com/view/cleargrasp 

Title: RST-MODNet: Real-time Spatio-temporal Moving Object Detection for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Moving Object Detection (MOD) is a critical task for autonomous vehicles as moving objects represent higher collision risk than static ones. The trajectory of the ego-vehicle is planned based on the future states of detected moving objects. It is quite challenging as the ego-motion has to be modelled and compensated to be able to understand the motion of the surrounding objects. In this work, we propose a real-time end-to-end CNN architecture for MOD utilizing spatio-temporal context to improve robustness. We construct a novel time-aware architecture exploiting temporal motion information embedded within sequential images in addition to explicit motion maps using optical flow images.We demonstrate the impact of our algorithm on KITTI dataset where we obtain an improvement of 8% relative to the baselines. We compare our algorithm with state-of-the-art methods and achieve competitive results on KITTI-Motion dataset in terms of accuracy at three times better run-time. The proposed algorithm runs at 23 fps on a standard desktop GPU targeting deployment on embedded platforms. 

Title: Design of an Electro-Hydraulic System Using Neuro-Fuzzy Techniques
Abstract:  Increasing demands in performance and quality make drive systems fundamental parts in the progressive automation of industrial processes. Their conventional models become inappropriate and have limited scope if one requires a precise and fast performance. So, it is important to incorporate learning capabilities into drive systems in such a way that they improve their accuracy in realtime, becoming more autonomous agents with some degree of intelligence. To investigate this challenge, this chapter presents the development of a learning control system that uses neuro-fuzzy techniques in the design of a tracking controller to an experimental electro-hydraulic actuator. We begin the chapter by presenting the neuro-fuzzy modeling process of the actuator. This part surveys the learning algorithm, describes the laboratorial system, and presents the modeling steps as the choice of actuator representative variables, the acquisition of training and testing data sets, and the acquisition of the neuro-fuzzy inverse-model of the actuator. In the second part of the chapter, we use the extracted neuro-fuzzy model and its learning capabilities to design the actuator position controller based on the feedback-error-learning technique. Through a set of experimental results, we show the generalization properties of the controller, its learning capability in actualizing in realtime the initial neuro-fuzzy inverse-model, and its compensation action improving the electro-hydraulics tracking performance. 

Title: Learning Navigation by Visual Localization and Trajectory Prediction
Abstract:  When driving, people make decisions based on current traffic as well as their desired route. They have a mental map of known routes and are often able to navigate without needing directions. Current self-driving models improve their performances when using additional GPS information. Here we aim to push forward self-driving research and perform route planning even in the absence of GPS. Our system learns to predict in real-time vehicle's current location and future trajectory, as a function of time, on a known map, given only the raw video stream and the intended destination. The GPS signal is available only at training time, with training data annotation being fully automatic. Different from other published models, we predict the vehicle's trajectory for up to seven seconds ahead, from which complete steering, speed and acceleration information can be derived for the entire time span. Trajectories capture navigational information on multiple levels, from instant steering commands that depend on present traffic and obstacles ahead, to longer-term navigation decisions, towards a specific destination. We collect our dataset with a regular car and a smartphone that records video and GPS streams. The GPS data is used to derive ground-truth supervision labels and create an analytical representation of the traversed map. In tests, our system outperforms published methods on visual localization and steering and gives accurate navigation assistance between any two known locations. 

Title: SegMap: Segment-based mapping and localization using data-driven descriptors
Abstract:  Precisely estimating a robot's pose in a prior, global map is a fundamental capability for mobile robotics, e.g. autonomous driving or exploration in disaster zones. This task, however, remains challenging in unstructured, dynamic environments, where local features are not discriminative enough and global scene descriptors only provide coarse information. We therefore present SegMap: a map representation solution for localization and mapping based on the extraction of segments in 3D point clouds. Working at the level of segments offers increased invariance to view-point and local structural changes, and facilitates real-time processing of large-scale 3D data. SegMap exploits a single compact data-driven descriptor for performing multiple tasks: global localization, 3D dense map reconstruction, and semantic information extraction. The performance of SegMap is evaluated in multiple urban driving and search and rescue experiments. We show that the learned SegMap descriptor has superior segment retrieval capabilities, compared to state-of-the-art handcrafted descriptors. In consequence, we achieve a higher localization accuracy and a 6% increase in recall over state-of-the-art. These segment-based localizations allow us to reduce the open-loop odometry drift by up to 50%. SegMap is open-source available along with easy to run demonstrations. 

Title: Multi-Head Attention for Multi-Modal Joint Vehicle Motion Forecasting
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel vehicle motion forecasting method based on multi-head attention. It produces joint forecasts for all vehicles on a road scene as sequences of multi-modal probability density functions of their positions. Its architecture uses multi-head attention to account for complete interactions between all vehicles, and long short-term memory layers for encoding and forecasting. It relies solely on vehicle position tracks, does not need maneuver definitions, and does not represent the scene with a spatial grid. This allows it to be more versatile than similar model while combining any forecasting capabilities, namely joint forecast with interactions, uncertainty estimation, and multi-modality. The resulting prediction likelihood outperforms state-of-the-art models on the same dataset. 

Title: A Sensitivity Analysis Approach for Evaluating a Radar Simulation for Virtual Testing of Autonomous Driving Functions
Abstract:  Simulation-based testing is a promising approach to significantly reduce the validation effort of automated driving functions. Realistic models of environment perception sensors such as camera, radar and lidar play a key role in this testing strategy. A generally accepted method to validate these sensor models does not yet exist. Particularly radar has traditionally been one of the most difficult sensors to model. Although promising as an alternative to real test drives, virtual tests are time-consuming due to the fact that they simulate the entire radar system in detail, using computation-intensive simulation techniques to approximate the propagation of electromagnetic waves. In this paper, we introduce a sensitivity analysis approach for developing and evaluating a radar simulation, with the objective to identify the parameters with the greatest impact regarding the system under test. A modular radar system simulation is presented and parameterized to conduct a sensitivity analysis in order to evaluate a spatial clustering algorithm as the system under test, while comparing the output from the radar model to real driving measurements to ensure a realistic model behavior. The presented approach is evaluated and it is demonstrated that with this approach results from different situations can be traced back to the contribution of the individual sub-modules of the radar simulation. 

Title: DA4AD: End-to-End Deep Attention-based Visual Localization for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  We present a visual localization framework based on novel deep attention aware features for autonomous driving that achieves centimeter level localization accuracy. Conventional approaches to the visual localization problem rely on handcrafted features or human-made objects on the road. They are known to be either prone to unstable matching caused by severe appearance or lighting changes, or too scarce to deliver constant and robust localization results in challenging scenarios. In this work, we seek to exploit the deep attention mechanism to search for salient, distinctive and stable features that are good for long-term matching in the scene through a novel end-to-end deep neural network. Furthermore, our learned feature descriptors are demonstrated to be competent to establish robust matches and therefore successfully estimate the optimal camera poses with high precision. We comprehensively validate the effectiveness of our method using a freshly collected dataset with high-quality ground truth trajectories and hardware synchronization between sensors. Results demonstrate that our method achieves a competitive localization accuracy when compared to the LiDAR-based localization solutions under various challenging circumstances, leading to a potential low-cost localization solution for autonomous driving. 

Title: Wind Estimation Using Quadcopter Motion: A Machine Learning Approach
Abstract:  In this article, we study the well known problem of wind estimation in atmospheric turbulence using small unmanned aerial systems (sUAS). We present a machine learning approach to wind velocity estimation based on quadcopter state measurements without a wind sensor. We accomplish this by training a long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network (NN) on roll and pitch angles and quadcopter position inputs with forcing wind velocities as the targets. The datasets are generated using a simulated quadcopter in turbulent wind fields. The trained neural network is deployed to estimate the turbulent winds as generated by the Dryden gust model as well as a realistic large eddy simulation (LES) of a near-neutral atmospheric boundary layer (ABL) over flat terrain. The resulting NN predictions are compared to a wind triangle approach that uses tilt angle as an approximation of airspeed. Results from this study indicate that the LSTM-NN based approach predicts lower errors in both the mean and variance of the local wind field as compared to the wind triangle approach. The work reported in this article demonstrates the potential of machine learning for sensor-less wind estimation and has strong implications to large-scale low-altitude atmospheric sensing using sUAS for environmental and autonomous navigation applications. 

Title: Active Domain Randomization
Abstract:  Domain randomization is a popular technique for improving domain transfer, often used in a zero-shot setting when the target domain is unknown or cannot easily be used for training. In this work, we empirically examine the effects of domain randomization on agent generalization. Our experiments show that domain randomization may lead to suboptimal, high-variance policies, which we attribute to the uniform sampling of environment parameters. We propose Active Domain Randomization, a novel algorithm that learns a parameter sampling strategy. Our method looks for the most informative environment variations within the given randomization ranges by leveraging the discrepancies of policy rollouts in randomized and reference environment instances. We find that training more frequently on these instances leads to better overall agent generalization. Our experiments across various physics-based simulated and real-robot tasks show that this enhancement leads to more robust, consistent policies. 

Title: Conditional Affordance Learning for Driving in Urban Environments
Abstract:  Most existing approaches to autonomous driving fall into one of two categories: modular pipelines, that build an extensive model of the environment, and imitation learning approaches, that map images directly to control outputs. A recently proposed third paradigm, direct perception, aims to combine the advantages of both by using a neural network to learn appropriate low-dimensional intermediate representations. However, existing direct perception approaches are restricted to simple highway situations, lacking the ability to navigate intersections, stop at traffic lights or respect speed limits. In this work, we propose a direct perception approach which maps video input to intermediate representations suitable for autonomous navigation in complex urban environments given high-level directional inputs. Compared to state-of-the-art reinforcement and conditional imitation learning approaches, we achieve an improvement of up to 68 % in goal-directed navigation on the challenging CARLA simulation benchmark. In addition, our approach is the first to handle traffic lights and speed signs by using image-level labels only, as well as smooth car-following, resulting in a significant reduction of traffic accidents in simulation. 

Title: Setting up a Reinforcement Learning Task with a Real-World Robot
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning is a promising approach to developing hard-to-engineer adaptive solutions for complex and diverse robotic tasks. However, learning with real-world robots is often unreliable and difficult, which resulted in their low adoption in reinforcement learning research. This difficulty is worsened by the lack of guidelines for setting up learning tasks with robots. In this work, we develop a learning task with a UR5 robotic arm to bring to light some key elements of a task setup and study their contributions to the challenges with robots. We find that learning performance can be highly sensitive to the setup, and thus oversights and omissions in setup details can make effective learning, reproducibility, and fair comparison hard. Our study suggests some mitigating steps to help future experimenters avoid difficulties and pitfalls. We show that highly reliable and repeatable experiments can be performed in our setup, indicating the possibility of reinforcement learning research extensively based on real-world robots. 

Title: Visual Semantic SLAM with Landmarks for Large-Scale Outdoor Environment
Abstract:  Semantic SLAM is an important field in autonomous driving and intelligent agents, which can enable robots to achieve high-level navigation tasks, obtain simple cognition or reasoning ability and achieve language-based human-robot-interaction. In this paper, we built a system to creat a semantic 3D map by combining 3D point cloud from ORB SLAM with semantic segmentation information from Convolutional Neural Network model PSPNet-101 for large-scale environments. Besides, a new dataset for KITTI sequences has been built, which contains the GPS information and labels of landmarks from Google Map in related streets of the sequences. Moreover, we find a way to associate the real-world landmark with point cloud map and built a topological map based on semantic map. 

Title: Active Learning for Risk-Sensitive Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  One typical assumption in inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) is that human experts act to optimize the expected utility of a stochastic cost with a fixed distribution. This assumption deviates from actual human behaviors under ambiguity. Risk-sensitive inverse reinforcement learning (RS-IRL) bridges such gap by assuming that humans act according to a random cost with respect to a set of subjectively distorted distributions instead of a fixed one. Such assumption provides the additional flexibility to model human's risk preferences, represented by a risk envelope, in safe-critical tasks. However, like other learning from demonstration techniques, RS-IRL could also suffer inefficient learning due to redundant demonstrations. Inspired by the concept of active learning, this research derives a probabilistic disturbance sampling scheme to enable an RS-IRL agent to query expert support that is likely to expose unrevealed boundaries of the expert's risk envelope. Experimental results confirm that our approach accelerates the convergence of RS-IRL algorithms with lower variance while still guaranteeing unbiased convergence. 

Title: Adaptive Probabilistic Trajectory Optimization via Efficient Approximate Inference
Abstract:  Robotic systems must be able to quickly and robustly make decisions when operating in uncertain and dynamic environments. While Reinforcement Learning (RL) can be used to compute optimal policies with little prior knowledge about the environment, it suffers from slow convergence. An alternative approach is Model Predictive Control (MPC), which optimizes policies quickly, but also requires accurate models of the system dynamics and environment. In this paper we propose a new approach, adaptive probabilistic trajectory optimization, that combines the benefits of RL and MPC. Our method uses scalable approximate inference to learn and updates probabilistic models in an online incremental fashion while also computing optimal control policies via successive local approximations. We present two variations of our algorithm based on the Sparse Spectrum Gaussian Process (SSGP) model, and we test our algorithm on three learning tasks, demonstrating the effectiveness and efficiency of our approach. 

Title: Accept Synthetic Objects as Real: End-to-End Training of Attentive Deep Visuomotor Policies for Manipulation in Clutter
Abstract:  Recent research demonstrated that it is feasible to end-to-end train multi-task deep visuomotor policies for robotic manipulation using variations of learning from demonstration (LfD) and reinforcement learning (RL). In this paper, we extend the capabilities of end-to-end LfD architectures to object manipulation in clutter. We start by introducing a data augmentation procedure called Accept Synthetic Objects as Real (ASOR). Using ASOR we develop two network architectures: implicit attention ASOR-IA and explicit attention ASOR-EA. Both architectures use the same training data (demonstrations in uncluttered environments) as previous approaches. Experimental results show that ASOR-IA and ASOR-EA succeed ina significant fraction of trials in cluttered environments where previous approaches never succeed. In addition, we find that both ASOR-IA and ASOR-EA outperform previous approaches even in uncluttered environments, with ASOR-EA performing better even in clutter compared to the previous best baseline in an uncluttered environment. 

Title: Assistive Gym: A Physics Simulation Framework for Assistive Robotics
Abstract:  Autonomous robots have the potential to serve as versatile caregivers that improve quality of life for millions of people worldwide. Yet, conducting research in this area presents numerous challenges, including the risks of physical interaction between people and robots. Physics simulations have been used to optimize and train robots for physical assistance, but have typically focused on a single task. In this paper, we present Assistive Gym, an open source physics simulation framework for assistive robots that models multiple tasks. It includes six simulated environments in which a robotic manipulator can attempt to assist a person with activities of daily living (ADLs): itch scratching, drinking, feeding, body manipulation, dressing, and bathing. Assistive Gym models a person's physical capabilities and preferences for assistance, which are used to provide a reward function. We present baseline policies trained using reinforcement learning for four different commercial robots in the six environments. We demonstrate that modeling human motion results in better assistance and we compare the performance of different robots. Overall, we show that Assistive Gym is a promising tool for assistive robotics research. 

Title: Incremental Adversarial Domain Adaptation for Continually Changing Environments
Abstract:  Continuous appearance shifts such as changes in weather and lighting conditions can impact the performance of deployed machine learning models. While unsupervised domain adaptation aims to address this challenge, current approaches do not utilise the continuity of the occurring shifts. In particular, many robotics applications exhibit these conditions and thus facilitate the potential to incrementally adapt a learnt model over minor shifts which integrate to massive differences over time. Our work presents an adversarial approach for lifelong, incremental domain adaptation which benefits from unsupervised alignment to a series of intermediate domains which successively diverge from the labelled source domain. We empirically demonstrate that our incremental approach improves handling of large appearance changes, e.g. day to night, on a traversable-path segmentation task compared with a direct, single alignment step approach. Furthermore, by approximating the feature distribution for the source domain with a generative adversarial network, the deployment module can be rendered fully independent of retaining potentially large amounts of the related source training data for only a minor reduction in performance. 

Title: From Plants to Landmarks: Time-invariant Plant Localization that uses Deep Pose Regression in Agricultural Fields
Abstract:  Agricultural robots are expected to increase yields in a sustainable way and automate precision tasks, such as weeding and plant monitoring. At the same time, they move in a continuously changing, semi-structured field environment, in which features can hardly be found and reproduced at a later time. Challenges for Lidar and visual detection systems stem from the fact that plants can be very small, overlapping and have a steadily changing appearance. Therefore, a popular way to localize vehicles with high accuracy is based on ex- pensive global navigation satellite systems and not on natural landmarks. The contribution of this work is a novel image- based plant localization technique that uses the time-invariant stem emerging point as a reference. Our approach is based on a fully convolutional neural network that learns landmark localization from RGB and NIR image input in an end-to-end manner. The network performs pose regression to generate a plant location likelihood map. Our approach allows us to cope with visual variances of plants both for different species and different growth stages. We achieve high localization accuracies as shown in detailed evaluations of a sugar beet cultivation phase. In experiments with our BoniRob we demonstrate that detections can be robustly reproduced with centimeter accuracy. 

Title: Simultaneous Feature and Body-Part Learning for Real-Time Robot Awareness of Human Behaviors
Abstract:  Robot awareness of human actions is an essential research problem in robotics with many important real-world applications, including human-robot collaboration and teaming. Over the past few years, depth sensors have become a standard device widely used by intelligent robots for 3D perception, which can also offer human skeletal data in 3D space. Several methods based on skeletal data were designed to enable robot awareness of human actions with satisfactory accuracy. However, previous methods treated all body parts and features equally important, without the capability to identify discriminative body parts and features. In this paper, we propose a novel simultaneous Feature And Body-part Learning (FABL) approach that simultaneously identifies discriminative body parts and features, and efficiently integrates all available information together to enable real-time robot awareness of human behaviors. We formulate FABL as a regression-like optimization problem with structured sparsity-inducing norms to model interrelationships of body parts and features. We also develop an optimization algorithm to solve the formulated problem, which possesses a theoretical guarantee to find the optimal solution. To evaluate FABL, three experiments were performed using public benchmark datasets, including the MSR Action3D and CAD-60 datasets, as well as a Baxter robot in practical assistive living applications. Experimental results show that our FABL approach obtains a high recognition accuracy with a processing speed of the order-of-magnitude of 10e4 Hz, which makes FABL a promising method to enable real-time robot awareness of human behaviors in practical robotics applications. 

Title: Meta Reinforcement Learning for Sim-to-real Domain Adaptation
Abstract:  Modern reinforcement learning methods suffer from low sample efficiency and unsafe exploration, making it infeasible to train robotic policies entirely on real hardware. In this work, we propose to address the problem of sim-to-real domain transfer by using meta learning to train a policy that can adapt to a variety of dynamic conditions, and using a task-specific trajectory generation model to provide an action space that facilitates quick exploration. We evaluate the method by performing domain adaptation in simulation and analyzing the structure of the latent space during adaptation. We then deploy this policy on a KUKA LBR 4+ robot and evaluate its performance on a task of hitting a hockey puck to a target. Our method shows more consistent and stable domain adaptation than the baseline, resulting in better overall performance. 

Title: Learning to Correspond Dynamical Systems
Abstract:  Many dynamical systems exhibit similar structure, as often captured by hand-designed simplified models that can be used for analysis and control. We develop a method for learning to correspond pairs of dynamical systems via a learned latent dynamical system. Given trajectory data from two dynamical systems, we learn a shared latent state space and a shared latent dynamics model, along with an encoder-decoder pair for each of the original systems. With the learned correspondences in place, we can use a simulation of one system to produce an imagined motion of its counterpart. We can also simulate in the learned latent dynamics and synthesize the motions of both corresponding systems, as a form of bisimulation. We demonstrate the approach using pairs of controlled bipedal walkers, as well as by pairing a walker with a controlled pendulum. 

Title: Semi-supervised Grasp Detection by Representation Learning in a Vector Quantized Latent Space
Abstract:  For a robot to perform complex manipulation tasks, it is necessary for it to have a good grasping ability. However, vision based robotic grasp detection is hindered by the unavailability of sufficient labelled data. Furthermore, the application of semi-supervised learning techniques to grasp detection is under-explored. In this paper, a semi-supervised learning based grasp detection approach has been presented, which models a discrete latent space using a Vector Quantized Variational AutoEncoder (VQ-VAE). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time a Variational AutoEncoder (VAE) has been applied in the domain of robotic grasp detection. The VAE helps the model in generalizing beyond the Cornell Grasping Dataset (CGD) despite having a limited amount of labelled data by also utilizing the unlabelled data. This claim has been validated by testing the model on images, which are not available in the CGD. Along with this, we augment the Generative Grasping Convolutional Neural Network (GGCNN) architecture with the decoder structure used in the VQ-VAE model with the intuition that it should help to regress in the vector-quantized latent space. Subsequently, the model performs significantly better than the existing approaches which do not make use of unlabelled images to improve the grasp. 

Title: RenderMap: Exploiting the Link Between Perception and Rendering for Dense Mapping
Abstract:  We introduce an approach for the real-time (2Hz) creation of a dense map and alignment of a moving robotic agent within that map by rendering using a Graphics Processing Unit (GPU). This is done by recasting the scan alignment part of the dense mapping process as a rendering task. Alignment errors are computed from rendering the scene, comparing with range data from the sensors, and minimized by an optimizer. The proposed approach takes advantage of the advances in rendering techniques for computer graphics and GPU hardware to accelerate the algorithm. Moreover, it allows one to exploit information not used in classic dense mapping algorithms such as Iterative Closest Point (ICP) by rendering interfaces between the free space, occupied space and the unknown. The proposed approach leverages directly the rendering capabilities of the GPU, in contrast to other GPU-based approaches that deploy the GPU as a general purpose parallel computation platform. We argue that the proposed concept is a general consequence of treating perception problems as inverse problems of rendering. Many perception problems can be recast into a form where much of the computation is replaced by render operations. This is not only efficient since rendering is fast, but also simpler to implement and will naturally benefit from future advancements in GPU speed and rendering techniques. Furthermore, this general concept can go beyond addressing perception problems and can be used for other problem domains such as path planning. 

Title: Discontinuous and Smooth Depth Completion with Binary Anisotropic Diffusion Tensor
Abstract:  We propose an unsupervised real-time dense depth completion from a sparse depth map guided by a single image. Our method generates a smooth depth map while preserving discontinuity between different objects. Our key idea is a Binary Anisotropic Diffusion Tensor (B-ADT) which can completely eliminate smoothness constraint at intended positions and directions by applying it to variational regularization. We also propose an Image-guided Nearest Neighbor Search (IGNNS) to derive a piecewise constant depth map which is used for B-ADT derivation and in the data term of the variational energy. Our experiments show that our method can outperform previous unsupervised and semi-supervised depth completion methods in terms of accuracy. Moreover, since our resulting depth map preserves the discontinuity between objects, the result can be converted to a visually plausible point cloud. This is remarkable since previous methods generate unnatural surface-like artifacts between discontinuous objects. 

Title: On-Policy Robot Imitation Learning from a Converging Supervisor
Abstract:  Existing on-policy imitation learning algorithms, such as DAgger, assume access to a fixed supervisor. However, there are many settings where the supervisor may evolve during policy learning, such as a human performing a novel task or an improving algorithmic controller. We formalize imitation learning from a "converging supervisor" and provide sublinear static and dynamic regret guarantees against the best policy in hindsight with labels from the converged supervisor, even when labels during learning are only from intermediate supervisors. We then show that this framework is closely connected to a class of reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms known as dual policy iteration (DPI), which alternate between training a reactive learner with imitation learning and a model-based supervisor with data from the learner. Experiments suggest that when this framework is applied with the state-of-the-art deep model-based RL algorithm PETS as an improving supervisor, it outperforms deep RL baselines on continuous control tasks and provides up to an 80-fold speedup in policy evaluation. 

Title: Emergence of Exploratory Look-Around Behaviors through Active Observation Completion
Abstract:  Standard computer vision systems assume access to intelligently captured inputs (e.g., photos from a human photographer), yet autonomously capturing good observations is a major challenge in itself. We address the problem of learning to look around: how can an agent learn to acquire informative visual observations? We propose a reinforcement learning solution, where the agent is rewarded for reducing its uncertainty about the unobserved portions of its environment. Specifically, the agent is trained to select a short sequence of glimpses after which it must infer the appearance of its full environment. To address the challenge of sparse rewards, we further introduce sidekick policy learning, which exploits the asymmetry in observability between training and test time. The proposed methods learn observation policies that not only perform the completion task for which they are trained, but also generalize to exhibit useful "look-around" behavior for a range of active perception tasks. 

Title: WGANVO: Monocular Visual Odometry based on Generative Adversarial Networks
Abstract:  In this work we present WGANVO, a Deep Learning based monocular Visual Odometry method. In particular, a neural network is trained to regress a pose estimate from an image pair. The training is performed using a semi-supervised approach. Unlike geometry based monocular methods, the proposed method can recover the absolute scale of the scene without neither prior knowledge nor extra information. The evaluation of the system is carried out on the well-known KITTI dataset where it is shown to work in real time and the accuracy obtained is encouraging to continue the development of Deep Learning based methods. 

Title: cilantro: A Lean, Versatile, and Efficient Library for Point Cloud Data Processing
Abstract:  We introduce cilantro, an open-source C++ library for geometric and general-purpose point cloud data processing. The library provides functionality that covers low-level point cloud operations, spatial reasoning, various methods for point cloud segmentation and generic data clustering, flexible algorithms for robust or local geometric alignment, model fitting, as well as powerful visualization tools. To accommodate all kinds of workflows, cilantro is almost fully templated, and most of its generic algorithms operate in arbitrary data dimension. At the same time, the library is easy to use and highly expressive, promoting a clean and concise coding style. cilantro is highly optimized, has a minimal set of external dependencies, and supports rapid development of performant point cloud processing software in a wide variety of contexts. 

Title: Implications of Human Irrationality for Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Recent work in the behavioural sciences has begun to overturn the long-held belief that human decision making is irrational, suboptimal and subject to biases. This turn to the rational suggests that human decision making may be a better source of ideas for constraining how machine learning problems are defined than would otherwise be the case. One promising idea concerns human decision making that is dependent on apparently irrelevant aspects of the choice context. Previous work has shown that by taking into account choice context and making relational observations, people can maximize expected value. Other work has shown that Partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs) are a useful way to formulate human-like decision problems. Here, we propose a novel POMDP model for contextual choice tasks and show that, despite the apparent irrationalities, a reinforcement learner can take advantage of the way that humans make decisions. We suggest that human irrationalities may offer a productive source of inspiration for improving the design of AI architectures and machine learning methods. 

Title: Quaternion Equivariant Capsule Networks for 3D Point Clouds
Abstract:  We present a 3D capsule module for processing point clouds that is equivariant to 3D rotations and translations, as well as invariant to permutations of the input points. The operator receives a sparse set of local reference frames, computed from an input point cloud and establishes end-to-end transformation equivariance through a novel dynamic routing procedure on quaternions. Further, we theoretically connect dynamic routing between capsules to the well-known Weiszfeld algorithm, a scheme for solving \emph{iterative re-weighted least squares} (IRLS) problems with provable convergence properties. It is shown that such group dynamic routing can be interpreted as robust IRLS rotation averaging on capsule votes, where information is routed based on the final inlier scores. Based on our operator, we build a capsule network that disentangles geometry from pose, paving the way for more informative descriptors and a structured latent space. Our architecture allows joint object classification and orientation estimation without explicit supervision of rotations. We validate our algorithm empirically on common benchmark datasets. 

Title: DynaNet: Neural Kalman Dynamical Model for Motion Estimation and Prediction
Abstract:  Dynamical models estimate and predict the temporal evolution of physical systems. State Space Models (SSMs) in particular represent the system dynamics with many desirable properties, such as being able to model uncertainty in both the model and measurements, and optimal (in the Bayesian sense) recursive formulations e.g. the Kalman Filter. However, they require significant domain knowledge to derive the parametric form and considerable hand-tuning to correctly set all the parameters. Data driven techniques e.g. Recurrent Neural Networks have emerged as compelling alternatives to SSMs with wide success across a number of challenging tasks, in part due to their ability to extract relevant features from rich inputs. They however lack interpretability and robustness to unseen conditions. In this work, we present DynaNet, a hybrid deep learning and time-varying state-space model which can be trained end-to-end. Our neural Kalman dynamical model allows us to exploit the relative merits of each approach. We demonstrate state-of-the-art estimation and prediction on a number of physically challenging tasks, including visual odometry, sensor fusion for visual-inertial navigation and pendulum control. In addition we show how DynaNet can indicate failures through investigation of properties such as the rate of innovation (Kalman Gain). 

Title: Lane Attention: Predicting Vehicles' Moving Trajectories by Learning Their Attention over Lanes
Abstract:  Accurately forecasting the future movements of surrounding vehicles is essential for safe and efficient operations of autonomous driving cars. This task is difficult because a vehicle's moving trajectory is greatly determined by its driver's intention, which is often hard to estimate. By leveraging attention mechanisms along with long short-term memory (LSTM) networks, this work learns the relation between a driver's intention and the vehicle's changing positions relative to road infrastructures, and uses it to guide the prediction. Different from other state-of-the-art solutions, our work treats the on-road lanes as non-Euclidean structures, unfolds the vehicle's moving history to form a spatio-temporal graph, and uses methods from Graph Neural Networks to solve the problem. Not only is our approach a pioneering attempt in using non-Euclidean methods to process static environmental features around a predicted object, our model also outperforms other state-of-the-art models in several metrics. The practicability and interpretability analysis of the model shows great potential for large-scale deployment in various autonomous driving systems in addition to our own. 

Title: Self-Supervised Attention Learning for Depth and Ego-motion Estimation
Abstract:  We address the problem of depth and ego-motion estimation from image sequences. Recent advances in the domain propose to train a deep learning model for both tasks using image reconstruction in a self-supervised manner. We revise the assumptions and the limitations of the current approaches and propose two improvements to boost the performance of the depth and ego-motion estimation. We first use Lie group properties to enforce the geometric consistency between images in the sequence and their reconstructions. We then propose a mechanism to pay an attention to image regions where the image reconstruction get corrupted. We show how to integrate the attention mechanism in the form of attention gates in the pipeline and use attention coefficients as a mask. We evaluate the new architecture on the KITTI datasets and compare it to the previous techniques. We show that our approach improves the state-of-the-art results for ego-motion estimation and achieve comparable results for depth estimation. 

Title: Learning to Play Table Tennis From Scratch using Muscular Robots
Abstract:  Dynamic tasks like table tennis are relatively easy to learn for humans but pose significant challenges to robots. Such tasks require accurate control of fast movements and precise timing in the presence of imprecise state estimation of the flying ball and the robot. Reinforcement Learning (RL) has shown promise in learning of complex control tasks from data. However, applying step-based RL to dynamic tasks on real systems is safety-critical as RL requires exploring and failing safely for millions of time steps in high-speed regimes. In this paper, we demonstrate that safe learning of table tennis using model-free Reinforcement Learning can be achieved by using robot arms driven by pneumatic artificial muscles (PAMs). Softness and back-drivability properties of PAMs prevent the system from leaving the safe region of its state space. In this manner, RL empowers the robot to return and smash real balls with 5 m\s and 12m\s on average to a desired landing point. Our setup allows the agent to learn this safety-critical task (i) without safety constraints in the algorithm, (ii) while maximizing the speed of returned balls directly in the reward function (iii) using a stochastic policy that acts directly on the low-level controls of the real system and (iv) trains for thousands of trials (v) from scratch without any prior knowledge. Additionally, we present HYSR, a practical hybrid sim and real training that avoids playing real balls during training by randomly replaying recorded ball trajectories in simulation and applying actions to the real robot. This work is the first to (a) fail-safe learn of a safety-critical dynamic task using anthropomorphic robot arms, (b) learn a precision-demanding problem with a PAM-driven system despite the control challenges and (c) train robots to play table tennis without real balls. Videos and datasets are available at muscularTT.embodied.ml. 

Title: A Spectral Learning Approach to Range-Only SLAM
Abstract:  We present a novel spectral learning algorithm for simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) from range data with known correspondences. This algorithm is an instance of a general spectral system identification framework, from which it inherits several desirable properties, including statistical consistency and no local optima. Compared with popular batch optimization or multiple-hypothesis tracking (MHT) methods for range-only SLAM, our spectral approach offers guaranteed low computational requirements and good tracking performance. Compared with popular extended Kalman filter (EKF) or extended information filter (EIF) approaches, and many MHT ones, our approach does not need to linearize a transition or measurement model; such linearizations can cause severe errors in EKFs and EIFs, and to a lesser extent MHT, particularly for the highly non-Gaussian posteriors encountered in range-only SLAM. We provide a theoretical analysis of our method, including finite-sample error bounds. Finally, we demonstrate on a real-world robotic SLAM problem that our algorithm is not only theoretically justified, but works well in practice: in a comparison of multiple methods, the lowest errors come from a combination of our algorithm with batch optimization, but our method alone produces nearly as good a result at far lower computational cost. 

Title: Predictive and Semantic Layout Estimation for Robotic Applications in Manhattan Worlds
Abstract:  This paper describes an approach to automatically extracting floor plans from the kinds of incomplete measurements that could be acquired by an autonomous mobile robot. The approach proceeds by reasoning about extended structural layout surfaces which are automatically extracted from the available data. The scheme can be run in an online manner to build water tight representations of the environment. The system effectively speculates about room boundaries and free space regions which provides useful guidance to subsequent motion planning systems. Experimental results are presented on multiple data sets. 

Title: Deep Learning for Image and Point Cloud Fusion in Autonomous Driving: A Review
Abstract:  Autonomous vehicles are experiencing rapid development in the past few years. However, achieving full autonomy is not a trivial task, due to the nature of the complex and dynamic driving environment. Therefore, autonomous vehicles are equipped with a suite of different sensors to ensure robust, accurate environmental perception. In particular, camera-LiDAR fusion is becoming an emerging research theme. However, so far there is no critical review that focuses on deep-learning-based camera-LiDAR fusion methods. To bridge this gap and motivate future research, this paper devotes to review recent deep-learning-based data fusion approaches that leverage both image and point cloud. This review gives a brief overview of deep learning on image and point cloud data processing. Followed by in-depth reviews of camera-LiDAR fusion methods in depth completion, object detection, semantic segmentation and tracking, which are organized based on their respective fusion levels. Furthermore, we compare these methods on publicly available datasets. Finally, we identified gaps and over-looked challenges between current academic researches and real-world applications. Based on these observations, we provide our insights and point out promising research directions. 

Title: In Perfect Shape: Certifiably Optimal 3D Shape Reconstruction from 2D Landmarks
Abstract:  We study the problem of 3D shape reconstruction from 2D landmarks extracted in a single image. We adopt the 3D deformable shape model and formulate the reconstruction as a joint optimization of the camera pose and the linear shape parameters. Our first contribution is to apply Lasserre's hierarchy of convex Sums-of-Squares (SOS) relaxations to solve the shape reconstruction problem and show that the SOS relaxation of minimum order 2 empirically solves the original non-convex problem exactly. Our second contribution is to exploit the structure of the polynomial in the objective function and find a reduced set of basis monomials for the SOS relaxation that significantly decreases the size of the resulting semidefinite program (SDP) without compromising its accuracy. These two contributions, to the best of our knowledge, lead to the first certifiably optimal solver for 3D shape reconstruction, that we name Shape*. Our third contribution is to add an outlier rejection layer to Shape* using a truncated least squares (TLS) robust cost function and leveraging graduated non-convexity to solve TLS without initialization. The result is a robust reconstruction algorithm, named Shape#, that tolerates a large amount of outlier measurements. We evaluate the performance of Shape* and Shape# in both simulated and real experiments, showing that Shape* outperforms local optimization and previous convex relaxation techniques, while Shape# achieves state-of-the-art performance and is robust against 70% outliers in the FG3DCar dataset. 

Title: Hierarchical Foresight: Self-Supervised Learning of Long-Horizon Tasks via Visual Subgoal Generation
Abstract:  Video prediction models combined with planning algorithms have shown promise in enabling robots to learn to perform many vision-based tasks through only self-supervision, reaching novel goals in cluttered scenes with unseen objects. However, due to the compounding uncertainty in long horizon video prediction and poor scalability of sampling-based planning optimizers, one significant limitation of these approaches is the ability to plan over long horizons to reach distant goals. To that end, we propose a framework for subgoal generation and planning, hierarchical visual foresight (HVF), which generates subgoal images conditioned on a goal image, and uses them for planning. The subgoal images are directly optimized to decompose the task into easy to plan segments, and as a result, we observe that the method naturally identifies semantically meaningful states as subgoals. Across three out of four simulated vision-based manipulation tasks, we find that our method achieves nearly a 200% performance improvement over planning without subgoals and model-free RL approaches. Further, our experiments illustrate that our approach extends to real, cluttered visual scenes. Project page: https://sites.google.com/stanford.edu/hvf 

Title: Graph Neural Networks for Motion Planning
Abstract:  This paper investigates the feasibility of using Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) for classical motion planning problems. Planning algorithms that search through discrete spaces as well as continuous ones are studied. This paper proposes using GNNs to guide the search algorithm by exploiting the ability of GNNs to extract low level information about the topology of a planning space. We present two techniques, GNNs over dense fixed graphs for low-dimensional problems and sampling-based GNNs for high-dimensional problems. We examine the ability of a GNN to tackle planning problems that are heavily dependent on the topology of the space such as identifying critical nodes, learning a heuristic that guides exploration in $\text{A}^*$, and learning the sampling distribution in Rapidly-exploring Random Trees (RRT). We demonstrate that GNNs can offer better results when compared to traditional analytic methods as well as learning-based approaches that employ fully-connected networks or convolutional neural networks. 

Title: DenseFusion: 6D Object Pose Estimation by Iterative Dense Fusion
Abstract:  A key technical challenge in performing 6D object pose estimation from RGB-D image is to fully leverage the two complementary data sources. Prior works either extract information from the RGB image and depth separately or use costly post-processing steps, limiting their performances in highly cluttered scenes and real-time applications. In this work, we present DenseFusion, a generic framework for estimating 6D pose of a set of known objects from RGB-D images. DenseFusion is a heterogeneous architecture that processes the two data sources individually and uses a novel dense fusion network to extract pixel-wise dense feature embedding, from which the pose is estimated. Furthermore, we integrate an end-to-end iterative pose refinement procedure that further improves the pose estimation while achieving near real-time inference. Our experiments show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art approaches in two datasets, YCB-Video and LineMOD. We also deploy our proposed method to a real robot to grasp and manipulate objects based on the estimated pose. 

Title: Embodied Visual Recognition
Abstract:  Passive visual systems typically fail to recognize objects in the amodal setting where they are heavily occluded. In contrast, humans and other embodied agents have the ability to move in the environment, and actively control the viewing angle to better understand object shapes and semantics. In this work, we introduce the task of Embodied Visual Recognition (EVR): An agent is instantiated in a 3D environment close to an occluded target object, and is free to move in the environment to perform object classification, amodal object localization, and amodal object segmentation. To address this, we develop a new model called Embodied Mask R-CNN, for agents to learn to move strategically to improve their visual recognition abilities. We conduct experiments using the House3D environment. Experimental results show that: 1) agents with embodiment (movement) achieve better visual recognition performance than passive ones; 2) in order to improve visual recognition abilities, agents can learn strategical moving paths that are different from shortest paths. 

Title: Learning for Multi-robot Cooperation in Partially Observable Stochastic Environments with Macro-actions
Abstract:  This paper presents a data-driven approach for multi-robot coordination in partially-observable domains based on Decentralized Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (Dec-POMDPs) and macro-actions (MAs). Dec-POMDPs provide a general framework for cooperative sequential decision making under uncertainty and MAs allow temporally extended and asynchronous action execution. To date, most methods assume the underlying Dec-POMDP model is known a priori or a full simulator is available during planning time. Previous methods which aim to address these issues suffer from local optimality and sensitivity to initial conditions. Additionally, few hardware demonstrations involving a large team of heterogeneous robots and with long planning horizons exist. This work addresses these gaps by proposing an iterative sampling based Expectation-Maximization algorithm (iSEM) to learn polices using only trajectory data containing observations, MAs, and rewards. Our experiments show the algorithm is able to achieve better solution quality than the state-of-the-art learning-based methods. We implement two variants of multi-robot Search and Rescue (SAR) domains (with and without obstacles) on hardware to demonstrate the learned policies can effectively control a team of distributed robots to cooperate in a partially observable stochastic environment. 

Title: TopoTag: A Robust and Scalable Topological Fiducial Marker System
Abstract:  Fiducial markers have been playing an important role in augmented reality (AR), robot navigation, and general applications where the relative pose between a camera and an object is required. Here we introduce TopoTag, a robust and scalable topological fiducial marker system, which supports reliable and accurate pose estimation from a single image. TopoTag uses topological and geometrical information in marker detection to achieve higher robustness. Topological information is extensively used for 2D marker detection, and further corresponding geometrical information for ID decoding. Robust 3D pose estimation is achieved by taking advantage of all TopoTag vertices. Without sacrificing bits for higher recall and precision like previous systems, TopoTag can use full bits for ID encoding. TopoTag supports tens of thousands unique IDs and easily extends to millions of unique tags resulting in massive scalability. We collected a large test dataset including in total 169,713 images for evaluation, involving in-plane and out-of-plane rotation, image blur, different distances and various backgrounds, etc. Experiments on the dataset and real indoor and outdoor scene tests with a rolling shutter camera both show that TopoTag significantly outperforms previous fiducial marker systems in terms of various metrics, including detection accuracy, vertex jitter, pose jitter and accuracy, etc. In addition, TopoTag supports occlusion as long as the main tag topological structure is maintained and allows for flexible shape design where users can customize internal and external marker shapes. Code for our marker design/generation, marker detection, and dataset are available at http://herohuyongtao.github.io/research/publications/topo-tag/. 

Title: Fast Scene Understanding for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Most approaches for instance-aware semantic labeling traditionally focus on accuracy. Other aspects like runtime and memory footprint are arguably as important for real-time applications such as autonomous driving. Motivated by this observation and inspired by recent works that tackle multiple tasks with a single integrated architecture, in this paper we present a real-time efficient implementation based on ENet that solves three autonomous driving related tasks at once: semantic scene segmentation, instance segmentation and monocular depth estimation. Our approach builds upon a branched ENet architecture with a shared encoder but different decoder branches for each of the three tasks. The presented method can run at 21 fps at a resolution of 1024x512 on the Cityscapes dataset without sacrificing accuracy compared to running each task separately. 

Title: Meta-World: A Benchmark and Evaluation for Multi-Task and Meta Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Meta-reinforcement learning algorithms can enable robots to acquire new skills much more quickly, by leveraging prior experience to learn how to learn. However, much of the current research on meta-reinforcement learning focuses on task distributions that are very narrow. For example, a commonly used meta-reinforcement learning benchmark uses different running velocities for a simulated robot as different tasks. When policies are meta-trained on such narrow task distributions, they cannot possibly generalize to more quickly acquire entirely new tasks. Therefore, if the aim of these methods is to enable faster acquisition of entirely new behaviors, we must evaluate them on task distributions that are sufficiently broad to enable generalization to new behaviors. In this paper, we propose an open-source simulated benchmark for meta-reinforcement learning and multi-task learning consisting of 50 distinct robotic manipulation tasks. Our aim is to make it possible to develop algorithms that generalize to accelerate the acquisition of entirely new, held-out tasks. We evaluate 6 state-of-the-art meta-reinforcement learning and multi-task learning algorithms on these tasks. Surprisingly, while each task and its variations (e.g., with different object positions) can be learned with reasonable success, these algorithms struggle to learn with multiple tasks at the same time, even with as few as ten distinct training tasks. Our analysis and open-source environments pave the way for future research in multi-task learning and meta-learning that can enable meaningful generalization, thereby unlocking the full potential of these methods. 

Title: Sensor Fusion of Camera, GPS and IMU using Fuzzy Adaptive Multiple Motion Models
Abstract:  A tracking system that will be used for Augmented Reality (AR) applications has two main requirements: accuracy and frame rate. The first requirement is related to the performance of the pose estimation algorithm and how accurately the tracking system can find the position and orientation of the user in the environment. Accuracy problems of current tracking devices, considering that they are low-cost devices, cause static errors during this motion estimation process. The second requirement is related to dynamic errors (the end-to-end system delay; occurring because of the delay in estimating the motion of the user and displaying images based on this estimate. This paper investigates combining the vision-based estimates with measurements from other sensors, GPS and IMU, in order to improve the tracking accuracy in outdoor environments. The idea of using Fuzzy Adaptive Multiple Models (FAMM) was investigated using a novel fuzzy rule-based approach to decide on the model that results in improved accuracy and faster convergence for the fusion filter. Results show that the developed tracking system is more accurate than a conventional GPS-IMU fusion approach due to additional estimates from a camera and fuzzy motion models. The paper also presents an application in cultural heritage context. 

Title: DeepHAZMAT: Hazardous Materials Sign Detection and Segmentation with Restricted Computational Resources
Abstract:  One of the most challenging and non-trivial tasks in robot-based rescue operations is the Hazardous Materials or HAZMATs sign detection in the operation field, to prevent further unexpected disasters. Each Hazmat sign has a specific meaning that the rescue robot should detect and interpret it to take a safe action, accordingly. Accurate Hazmat detection and real-time processing are the two most important factors in such robotics applications. Furthermore, we also have to cope with some secondary challenges such as image distortion and restricted CPU and computational resources which are embedded in a rescue robot. In this paper, we propose a CNN-Based pipeline called DeepHAZMAT for detecting and segmenting Hazmats in four steps; 1) optimising the number of input images that are fed into the CNN network, 2) using the YOLOv3-tiny structure to collect the required visual information from the hazardous areas, 3) Hazmat sign segmentation and separation from the background using GrabCut technique, and 4) post-processing the result with morphological operators and convex hull algorithm. In spite of the utilisation of a very limited memory and CPU resources, the experimental results show the proposed method has successfully maintained a better performance in terms of detection-speed and detection-accuracy, compared with the state-of-the-art methods. 

Title: Deep Robotic Prediction with hierarchical RGB-D Fusion
Abstract:  Robotic arm grasping is a fundamental operation in robotic control task goals. Most current methods for robotic grasping focus on RGB-D policy in the table surface scenario or 3D point cloud analysis and inference in the 3D space. Comparing to these methods, we propose a novel real-time multimodal hierarchical encoder-decoder neural network that fuses RGB and depth data to realize robotic humanoid grasping in 3D space with only partial observation. The quantification of raw depth data's uncertainty and depth estimation fusing RGB is considered. We develop a general labeling method to label ground-truth on common RGB-D datasets. We evaluate the effectiveness and performance of our method on a physical robot setup and our method achieves over 90\% success rate in both table surface and 3D space scenarios. 

Title: Spatio-temporal Attention Model for Tactile Texture Recognition
Abstract:  Recently, tactile sensing has attracted great interest in robotics, especially for facilitating exploration of unstructured environments and effective manipulation. A detailed understanding of the surface textures via tactile sensing is essential for many of these tasks. Previous works on texture recognition using camera based tactile sensors have been limited to treating all regions in one tactile image or all samples in one tactile sequence equally, which includes much irrelevant or redundant information. In this paper, we propose a novel Spatio-Temporal Attention Model (STAM) for tactile texture recognition, which is the very first of its kind to our best knowledge. The proposed STAM pays attention to both spatial focus of each single tactile texture and the temporal correlation of a tactile sequence. In the experiments to discriminate 100 different fabric textures, the spatially and temporally selective attention has resulted in a significant improvement of the recognition accuracy, by up to 18.8%, compared to the non-attention based models. Specifically, after introducing noisy data that is collected before the contact happens, our proposed STAM can learn the salient features efficiently and the accuracy can increase by 15.23% on average compared with the CNN based baseline approach. The improved tactile texture perception can be applied to facilitate robot tasks like grasping and manipulation. 

Title: Indoor Scene Recognition in 3D
Abstract:  Recognising in what type of environment one is located is an important perception task. For instance, for a robot operating in indoors it is helpful to be aware whether it is in a kitchen, a hallway or a bedroom. Existing approaches attempt to classify the scene based on 2D images or 2.5D range images. Here, we study scene recognition from 3D point cloud (or voxel) data, and show that it greatly outperforms methods based on 2D birds-eye views. Moreover, we advocate multi-task learning as a way of improving scene recognition, building on the fact that the scene type is highly correlated with the objects in the scene, and therefore with its semantic segmentation into different object classes. In a series of ablation studies, we show that successful scene recognition is not just the recognition of individual objects unique to some scene type (such as a bathtub), but depends on several different cues, including coarse 3D geometry, colour, and the (implicit) distribution of object categories. Moreover, we demonstrate that surprisingly sparse 3D data is sufficient to classify indoor scenes with good accuracy. 

Title: Composable Deep Reinforcement Learning for Robotic Manipulation
Abstract:  Model-free deep reinforcement learning has been shown to exhibit good performance in domains ranging from video games to simulated robotic manipulation and locomotion. However, model-free methods are known to perform poorly when the interaction time with the environment is limited, as is the case for most real-world robotic tasks. In this paper, we study how maximum entropy policies trained using soft Q-learning can be applied to real-world robotic manipulation. The application of this method to real-world manipulation is facilitated by two important features of soft Q-learning. First, soft Q-learning can learn multimodal exploration strategies by learning policies represented by expressive energy-based models. Second, we show that policies learned with soft Q-learning can be composed to create new policies, and that the optimality of the resulting policy can be bounded in terms of the divergence between the composed policies. This compositionality provides an especially valuable tool for real-world manipulation, where constructing new policies by composing existing skills can provide a large gain in efficiency over training from scratch. Our experimental evaluation demonstrates that soft Q-learning is substantially more sample efficient than prior model-free deep reinforcement learning methods, and that compositionality can be performed for both simulated and real-world tasks. 

Title: Distributed Machine Learning in Materials that Couple Sensing, Actuation, Computation and Communication
Abstract:  This paper reviews machine learning applications and approaches to detection, classification and control of intelligent materials and structures with embedded distributed computation elements. The purpose of this survey is to identify desired tasks to be performed in each type of material or structure (e.g., damage detection in composites), identify and compare common approaches to learning such tasks, and investigate models and training paradigms used. Machine learning approaches and common temporal features used in the domains of structural health monitoring, morphable aircraft, wearable computing and robotic skins are explored. As the ultimate goal of this research is to incorporate the approaches described in this survey into a robotic material paradigm, the potential for adapting the computational models used in these applications, and corresponding training algorithms, to an amorphous network of computing nodes is considered. Distributed versions of support vector machines, graphical models and mixture models developed in the field of wireless sensor networks are reviewed. Potential areas of investigation, including possible architectures for incorporating machine learning into robotic nodes, training approaches, and the possibility of using deep learning approaches for automatic feature extraction, are discussed. 

Title: Synergetic Reconstruction from 2D Pose and 3D Motion for Wide-Space Multi-Person Video Motion Capture in the Wild
Abstract:  Although many studies have been made on markerless motion capture, it has not been applied to real sports or concerts. In this paper, we propose a markerless motion capture method with spatiotemporal accuracy and smoothness from multiple cameras, even in wide and multi-person environments. The key idea is predicting each person's 3D pose and determining the bounding box of multi-camera images small enough. This prediction and spatiotemporal filtering based on human skeletal structure eases 3D reconstruction of the person and yields accuracy. The accurate 3D reconstruction is then used to predict the bounding box of each camera image in the next frame. This is a feedback from 3D motion to 2D pose, and provides a synergetic effect to the total performance of video motion capture. We demonstrate the method using various datasets and a real sports field. The experimental results show the mean per joint position error was 31.6mm and the percentage of correct parts was 99.3% under five people moving dynamically, with satisfying the range of motion. Video demonstration, datasets, and additional materials are posted on our project page. 

Title: Policies Modulating Trajectory Generators
Abstract:  We propose an architecture for learning complex controllable behaviors by having simple Policies Modulate Trajectory Generators (PMTG), a powerful combination that can provide both memory and prior knowledge to the controller. The result is a flexible architecture that is applicable to a class of problems with periodic motion for which one has an insight into the class of trajectories that might lead to a desired behavior. We illustrate the basics of our architecture using a synthetic control problem, then go on to learn speed-controlled locomotion for a quadrupedal robot by using Deep Reinforcement Learning and Evolutionary Strategies. We demonstrate that a simple linear policy, when paired with a parametric Trajectory Generator for quadrupedal gaits, can induce walking behaviors with controllable speed from 4-dimensional IMU observations alone, and can be learned in under 1000 rollouts. We also transfer these policies to a real robot and show locomotion with controllable forward velocity. 

Title: Learning to Grasp from a Single Demonstration
Abstract:  Learning-based approaches for robotic grasping using visual sensors typically require collecting a large size dataset, either manually labeled or by many trial and errors of a robotic manipulator in the real or simulated world. We propose a simpler learning-from-demonstration approach that is able to detect the object to grasp from merely a single demonstration using a convolutional neural network we call GraspNet. In order to increase robustness and decrease the training time even further, we leverage data from previous demonstrations to quickly fine-tune a GrapNet for each new demonstration. We present some preliminary results on a grasping experiment with the Franka Panda cobot for which we can train a GraspNet with only hundreds of train iterations. 

Title: Learning to Track Dynamic Targets in Partially Known Environments
Abstract:  We solve active target tracking, one of the essential tasks in autonomous systems, using a deep reinforcement learning (RL) approach. In this problem, an autonomous agent is tasked with acquiring information about targets of interests using its onboard sensors. The classical challenges in this problem are system model dependence and the difficulty of computing information-theoretic cost functions for a long planning horizon. RL provides solutions for these challenges as the length of its effective planning horizon does not affect the computational complexity, and it drops the strong dependency of an algorithm on system models. In particular, we introduce Active Tracking Target Network (ATTN), a unified RL policy that is capable of solving major sub-tasks of active target tracking -- in-sight tracking, navigation, and exploration. The policy shows robust behavior for tracking agile and anomalous targets with a partially known target model. Additionally, the same policy is able to navigate in obstacle environments to reach distant targets as well as explore the environment when targets are positioned in unexpected locations. 

Title: RSL-Net: Localising in Satellite Images From a Radar on the Ground
Abstract:  This paper is about localising a vehicle in an overhead image using FMCW radar mounted on a ground vehicle. FMCW radar offers extraordinary promise and efficacy for vehicle localisation. It is impervious to all weather types and lighting conditions. However the complexity of the interactions between millimetre radar wave and the physical environment makes it a challenging domain. Infrastructure-free large-scale radar-based localisation is in its infancy. Typically here a map is built and suitable techniques, compatible with the nature of sensor, are brought to bear. In this work we eschew the need for a radar-based map; instead we simply use an overhead image -- a resource readily available everywhere. This paper introduces a method that not only naturally deals with the complexity of the signal type but does so in the context of cross modal processing. 

Title: Towards a Framework for Visual Intelligence in Service Robotics: Epistemic Requirements and Gap Analysis
Abstract:  A key capability required by service robots operating in real-world, dynamic environments is that of Visual Intelligence, i.e., the ability to use their vision system, reasoning components and background knowledge to make sense of their environment. In this paper, we analyze the epistemic requirements for Visual Intelligence, both in a top-down fashion, using existing frameworks for human-like Visual Intelligence in the literature, and from the bottom up, based on the errors emerging from object recognition trials in a real-world robotic scenario. Finally, we use these requirements to evaluate current knowledge bases for Service Robotics and to identify gaps in the support they provide for Visual Intelligence. These gaps provide the basis of a research agenda for developing more effective knowledge representations for Visual Intelligence. 

Title: PyRobot: An Open-source Robotics Framework for Research and Benchmarking
Abstract:  This paper introduces PyRobot, an open-source robotics framework for research and benchmarking. PyRobot is a light-weight, high-level interface on top of ROS that provides a consistent set of hardware independent mid-level APIs to control different robots. PyRobot abstracts away details about low-level controllers and inter-process communication, and allows non-robotics researchers (ML, CV researchers) to focus on building high-level AI applications. PyRobot aims to provide a research ecosystem with convenient access to robotics datasets, algorithm implementations and models that can be used to quickly create a state-of-the-art baseline. We believe PyRobot, when paired up with low-cost robot platforms such as LoCoBot, will reduce the entry barrier into robotics, and democratize robotics. PyRobot is open-source, and can be accessed via https://pyrobot.org. 

Title: Active Neural Localization
Abstract:  Localization is the problem of estimating the location of an autonomous agent from an observation and a map of the environment. Traditional methods of localization, which filter the belief based on the observations, are sub-optimal in the number of steps required, as they do not decide the actions taken by the agent. We propose "Active Neural Localizer", a fully differentiable neural network that learns to localize accurately and efficiently. The proposed model incorporates ideas of traditional filtering-based localization methods, by using a structured belief of the state with multiplicative interactions to propagate belief, and combines it with a policy model to localize accurately while minimizing the number of steps required for localization. Active Neural Localizer is trained end-to-end with reinforcement learning. We use a variety of simulation environments for our experiments which include random 2D mazes, random mazes in the Doom game engine and a photo-realistic environment in the Unreal game engine. The results on the 2D environments show the effectiveness of the learned policy in an idealistic setting while results on the 3D environments demonstrate the model's capability of learning the policy and perceptual model jointly from raw-pixel based RGB observations. We also show that a model trained on random textures in the Doom environment generalizes well to a photo-realistic office space environment in the Unreal engine. 

Title: Single-Shot Panoptic Segmentation
Abstract:  We present a novel end-to-end single-shot method that segments countable object instances (things) as well as background regions (stuff) into a non-overlapping panoptic segmentation at almost video frame rate. Current state-of-the-art methods are far from reaching video frame rate and mostly rely on merging instance segmentation with semantic background segmentation. Our approach relaxes this requirement by using an object detector but is still able to resolve inter- and intra-class overlaps to achieve a non-overlapping segmentation. On top of a shared encoder-decoder backbone, we utilize multiple branches for semantic segmentation, object detection, and instance center prediction. Finally, our panoptic head combines all outputs into a panoptic segmentation and can even handle conflicting predictions between branches as well as certain false predictions. Our network achieves 32.6% PQ on MS-COCO at 21.8 FPS, opening up panoptic segmentation to a broader field of applications. 

Title: A 2D laser rangefinder scans dataset of standard EUR pallets
Abstract:  In the past few years, the technology of automated guided vehicles (AGVs) has notably advanced. In particular, in the context of factory and warehouse automation, different approaches have been presented for detecting and localizing pallets inside warehouses and shop-floor environments. In a related research paper [1], we show that an AGVs can detect, localize, and track pallets using machine learning techniques based only on the data of an on-board 2D laser rangefinder. Such sensor is very common in industrial scenarios due to its simplicity and robustness, but it can only provide a limited amount of data. Therefore, it has been neglected in the past in favor of more complex solutions. In this paper, we release to the community the data we collected in [1] for further research activities in the field of pallet localization and tracking. The dataset comprises a collection of 565 2D scans from real-world environments, which are divided into 340 samples where pallets are present, and 225 samples where they are not. The data have been manually labelled and are provided in different formats. 

Title: Fast Graph-Based Object Segmentation for RGB-D Images
Abstract:  Object segmentation is an important capability for robotic systems, in particular for grasping. We present a graph- based approach for the segmentation of simple objects from RGB-D images. We are interested in segmenting objects with large variety in appearance, from lack of texture to strong textures, for the task of robotic grasping. The algorithm does not rely on image features or machine learning. We propose a modified Canny edge detector for extracting robust edges by using depth information and two simple cost functions for combining color and depth cues. The cost functions are used to build an undirected graph, which is partitioned using the concept of internal and external differences between graph regions. The partitioning is fast with O(NlogN) complexity. We also discuss ways to deal with missing depth information. We test the approach on different publicly available RGB-D object datasets, such as the Rutgers APC RGB-D dataset and the RGB-D Object Dataset, and compare the results with other existing methods. 

Title: An Active Learning Framework for Efficient Robust Policy Search
Abstract:  Robust Policy Search is the problem of learning policies that do not degrade in performance when subject to unseen environment model parameters. It is particularly relevant for transferring policies learned in a simulation environment to the real world. Several existing approaches involve sampling large batches of trajectories which reflect the differences in various possible environments, and then selecting some subset of these to learn robust policies, such as the ones that result in the worst performance. We propose an active learning based framework, EffAcTS, to selectively choose model parameters for this purpose so as to collect only as much data as necessary to select such a subset. We apply this framework to an existing method, namely EPOpt, and experimentally validate the gains in sample efficiency and the performance of our approach on standard continuous control tasks. We also present a Multi-Task Learning perspective to the problem of Robust Policy Search, and draw connections from our proposed framework to existing work on Multi-Task Learning. 

Title: Multivariate Uncertainty in Deep Learning
Abstract:  Deep learning is increasingly used for state estimation problems such as tracking, navigation, and pose estimation. The uncertainties associated with these measurements are typically assumed to be a fixed covariance matrix. For many scenarios this assumption is inaccurate, leading to worse subsequent filtered state estimates. We show how to model multivariate uncertainty for regression problems with neural networks, incorporating both aleatoric and epistemic sources of heteroscedastic uncertainty. We train a deep uncertainty covariance matrix model in two ways: directly using a multivariate Gaussian density loss function, and indirectly using end-to-end training through a Kalman filter. We experimentally show in a visual tracking problem the large impact that accurate multivariate uncertainty quantification can have on Kalman filter estimation for both in-domain and out-of-domain evaluation data. 

Title: Adversarial Imitation via Variational Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  We consider a problem of learning the reward and policy from expert examples under unknown dynamics. Our proposed method builds on the framework of generative adversarial networks and introduces the empowerment-regularized maximum-entropy inverse reinforcement learning to learn near-optimal rewards and policies. Empowerment-based regularization prevents the policy from overfitting to expert demonstrations, which advantageously leads to more generalized behaviors that result in learning near-optimal rewards. Our method simultaneously learns empowerment through variational information maximization along with the reward and policy under the adversarial learning formulation. We evaluate our approach on various high-dimensional complex control tasks. We also test our learned rewards in challenging transfer learning problems where training and testing environments are made to be different from each other in terms of dynamics or structure. The results show that our proposed method not only learns near-optimal rewards and policies that are matching expert behavior but also performs significantly better than state-of-the-art inverse reinforcement learning algorithms. 

Title: Redesigning SLAM for Arbitrary Multi-Camera Systems
Abstract:  Adding more cameras to SLAM systems improves robustness and accuracy but complicates the design of the visual front-end significantly. Thus, most systems in the literature are tailored for specific camera configurations. In this work, we aim at an adaptive SLAM system that works for arbitrary multi-camera setups. To this end, we revisit several common building blocks in visual SLAM. In particular, we propose an adaptive initialization scheme, a sensor-agnostic, information-theoretic keyframe selection algorithm, and a scalable voxel-based map. These techniques make little assumption about the actual camera setups and prefer theoretically grounded methods over heuristics. We adapt a state-of-the-art visual-inertial odometry with these modifications, and experimental results show that the modified pipeline can adapt to a wide range of camera setups (e.g., 2 to 6 cameras in one experiment) without the need of sensor-specific modifications or tuning. 

Title: Learning High-Level Policies for Model Predictive Control
Abstract:  The combination of policy search and deep neural networks holds the promise of automating a variety of decision-making tasks. Model Predictive Control~(MPC) provides robust solutions to robot control tasks by making use of a dynamical model of the system and solving an optimization problem online over a short planning horizon. In this work, we leverage probabilistic decision-making approaches and the generalization capability of artificial neural networks to the powerful online optimization by learning a deep high-level policy for the MPC~(High-MPC). Conditioning on robot's local observations, the trained neural network policy is capable of adaptively selecting high-level decision variables for the low-level MPC controller, which then generates optimal control commands for the robot. First, we formulate the search of high-level decision variables for MPC as a policy search problem, specifically, a probabilistic inference problem. The problem can be solved in a closed-form solution. Second, we propose a self-supervised learning algorithm for learning a neural network high-level policy, which is useful for online hyperparameter adaptations in highly dynamic environments. We demonstrate the importance of incorporating the online adaption into autonomous robots by using the proposed method to solve a challenging control problem, where the task is to control a simulated quadrotor to fly through a swinging gate. We show that our approach can handle situations that are difficult for standard MPC. 

Title: Photometric Bundle Adjustment for Vision-Based SLAM
Abstract:  We propose a novel algorithm for the joint refinement of structure and motion parameters from image data directly without relying on fixed and known correspondences. In contrast to traditional bundle adjustment (BA) where the optimal parameters are determined by minimizing the reprojection error using tracked features, the proposed algorithm relies on maximizing the photometric consistency and estimates the correspondences implicitly. Since the proposed algorithm does not require correspondences, its application is not limited to corner-like structure; any pixel with nonvanishing gradient could be used in the estimation process. Furthermore, we demonstrate the feasibility of refining the motion and structure parameters simultaneously using the photometric in unconstrained scenes and without requiring restrictive assumptions such as planarity. The proposed algorithm is evaluated on range of challenging outdoor datasets, and it is shown to improve upon the accuracy of the state-of-the-art VSLAM methods obtained using the minimization of the reprojection error using traditional BA as well as loop closure. 

Title: The Cyborg Astrobiologist: First Field Experience
Abstract:  We present results from the first geological field tests of the `Cyborg Astrobiologist', which is a wearable computer and video camcorder system that we are using to test and train a computer-vision system towards having some of the autonomous decision-making capabilities of a field-geologist and field-astrobiologist. The Cyborg Astrobiologist platform has thus far been used for testing and development of these algorithms and systems: robotic acquisition of quasi-mosaics of images, real-time image segmentation, and real-time determination of interesting points in the image mosaics. The hardware and software systems function reliably, and the computer-vision algorithms are adequate for the first field tests. In addition to the proof-of-concept aspect of these field tests, the main result of these field tests is the enumeration of those issues that we can improve in the future, including: first, detection and accounting for shadows caused by 3D jagged edges in the outcrop; second, reincorporation of more sophisticated texture-analysis algorithms into the system; third, creation of hardware and software capabilities to control the camera's zoom lens in an intelligent manner; and fourth, development of algorithms for interpretation of complex geological scenery. Nonetheless, despite these technical inadequacies, this Cyborg Astrobiologist system, consisting of a camera-equipped wearable-computer and its computer-vision algorithms, has demonstrated its ability of finding genuinely interesting points in real-time in the geological scenery, and then gathering more information about these interest points in an automated manner. 

Title: JuncNet: A Deep Neural Network for Road Junction Disambiguation for Autonomous Vehicles
Abstract:  With a great amount of research going on in the field of autonomous vehicles or self-driving cars, there has been considerable progress in road detection and tracking algorithms. Most of these algorithms use GPS to handle road junctions and its subsequent decisions. However, there are places in the urban environment where it becomes difficult to get GPS fixes which render the junction decision handling erroneous or possibly risky. Vision-based junction detection, however, does not have such problems. This paper proposes a novel deep convolutional neural network architecture for disambiguation of junctions from roads with a high degree of accuracy. This network is benchmarked against other well known classifying network architectures like AlexNet and VGGnet. Further, we discuss a potential road navigation methodology which uses the proposed network model. We conclude by performing an experimental validation of the trained network and the navigational method on the roads of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc). 

Title: Input Perturbations for Adaptive Control and Learning
Abstract:  This paper studies adaptive algorithms for simultaneous regulation (i.e., control) and estimation (i.e., learning) of Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) linear dynamical systems. It proposes practical, easy to implement control policies based on perturbations of input signals. Such policies are shown to achieve a worst-case regret that scales as the square-root of the time horizon, and holds uniformly over time. Further, it discusses specific settings where such greedy policies attain the information theoretic lower bound of logarithmic regret. To establish the results, recent advances on self-normalized martingales together with a novel method of policy decomposition are leveraged. 

Title: Grasping in the Wild:Learning 6DoF Closed-Loop Grasping from Low-Cost Demonstrations
Abstract:  Intelligent manipulation benefits from the capacity to flexibly control an end-effector with high degrees of freedom (DoF) and dynamically react to the environment. However, due to the challenges of collecting effective training data and learning efficiently, most grasping algorithms today are limited to top-down movements and open-loop execution. In this work, we propose a new low-cost hardware interface for collecting grasping demonstrations by people in diverse environments. Leveraging this data, we show that it is possible to train a robust end-to-end 6DoF closed-loop grasping model with reinforcement learning that transfers to real robots. A key aspect of our grasping model is that it uses "action-view" based rendering to simulate future states with respect to different possible actions. By evaluating these states using a learned value function (Q-function), our method is able to better select corresponding actions that maximize total rewards (i.e., grasping success). Our final grasping system is able to achieve reliable 6DoF closed-loop grasping of novel objects across various scene configurations, as well as dynamic scenes with moving objects. 

Title: Imitation Learning Approach for AI Driving Olympics Trained on Real-world and Simulation Data Simultaneously
Abstract:  In this paper, we describe our winning approach to solving the Lane Following Challenge at the AI Driving Olympics Competition through imitation learning on a mixed set of simulation and real-world data. AI Driving Olympics is a two-stage competition: at stage one, algorithms compete in a simulated environment with the best ones advancing to a real-world final. One of the main problems that participants encounter during the competition is that algorithms trained for the best performance in simulated environments do not hold up in a real-world environment and vice versa. Classic control algorithms also do not translate well between tasks since most of them have to be tuned to specific driving conditions such as lighting, road type, camera position, etc. To overcome this problem, we employed the imitation learning algorithm and trained it on a dataset collected from sources both from simulation and real-world, forcing our model to perform equally well in all environments. 

Title: End-to-end Driving via Conditional Imitation Learning
Abstract:  Deep networks trained on demonstrations of human driving have learned to follow roads and avoid obstacles. However, driving policies trained via imitation learning cannot be controlled at test time. A vehicle trained end-to-end to imitate an expert cannot be guided to take a specific turn at an upcoming intersection. This limits the utility of such systems. We propose to condition imitation learning on high-level command input. At test time, the learned driving policy functions as a chauffeur that handles sensorimotor coordination but continues to respond to navigational commands. We evaluate different architectures for conditional imitation learning in vision-based driving. We conduct experiments in realistic three-dimensional simulations of urban driving and on a 1/5 scale robotic truck that is trained to drive in a residential area. Both systems drive based on visual input yet remain responsive to high-level navigational commands. The supplementary video can be viewed at https://youtu.be/cFtnflNe5fM 

Title: Radar-based Feature Design and Multiclass Classification for Road User Recognition
Abstract:  The classification of individual traffic participants is a complex task, especially for challenging scenarios with multiple road users or under bad weather conditions. Radar sensors provide an - with respect to well established camera systems - orthogonal way of measuring such scenes. In order to gain accurate classification results, 50 different features are extracted from the measurement data and tested on their performance. From these features a suitable subset is chosen and passed to random forest and long short-term memory (LSTM) classifiers to obtain class predictions for the radar input. Moreover, it is shown why data imbalance is an inherent problem in automotive radar classification when the dataset is not sufficiently large. To overcome this issue, classifier binarization is used among other techniques in order to better account for underrepresented classes. A new method to couple the resulting probabilities is proposed and compared to others with great success. Final results show substantial improvements when compared to ordinary multiclass classification 

Title: Graph Neural Networks for Learning Robot Team Coordination
Abstract:  This paper shows how Graph Neural Networks can be used for learning distributed coordination mechanisms in connected teams of robots. We capture the relational aspect of robot coordination by modeling the robot team as a graph, where each robot is a node, and edges represent communication links. During training, robots learn how to pass messages and update internal states, so that a target behavior is reached. As a proxy for more complex problems, this short paper considers the problem where each robot must locally estimate the algebraic connectivity of the team's network topology. 

Title: The Differentiable Cross-Entropy Method
Abstract:  We study the cross-entropy method (CEM) for the non-convex optimization of a continuous and parameterized objective function and introduce a differentiable variant that enables us to differentiate the output of CEM with respect to the objective function's parameters. In the machine learning setting this brings CEM inside of the end-to-end learning pipeline where this has otherwise been impossible. We show applications in a synthetic energy-based structured prediction task and in non-convex continuous control. In the control setting we show how to embed optimal action sequences into a lower-dimensional space. DCEM enables us to fine-tune CEM-based controllers with policy optimization. 

Title: Sensory Anticipation of Optical Flow in Mobile Robotics
Abstract:  In order to anticipate dangerous events, like a collision, an agent needs to make long-term predictions. However, those are challenging due to uncertainties in internal and external variables and environment dynamics. A sensorimotor model is acquired online by the mobile robot using a state-of-the-art method that learns the optical flow distribution in images, both in space and time. The learnt model is used to anticipate the optical flow up to a given time horizon and to predict an imminent collision by using reinforcement learning. We demonstrate that multi-modal predictions reduce to simpler distributions once actions are taken into account. 

Title: Sensors, SLAM and Long-term Autonomy: A Review
Abstract:  Simultaneous Localization and Mapping, commonly known as SLAM, has been an active research area in the field of Robotics over the past three decades. For solving the SLAM problem, every robot is equipped with either a single sensor or a combination of similar/different sensors. This paper attempts to review, discuss, evaluate and compare these sensors. Keeping an eye on future, this paper also assesses the characteristics of these sensors against factors critical to the long-term autonomy challenge. 

Title: State Estimation in Visual Inertial Autonomous Helicopter Landing Using Optimisation on Manifold
Abstract:  Autonomous helicopter landing is a challenging task that requires precise information about the aircraft states regarding the helicopters position, attitude, as well as position of the helipad. To this end, we propose a solution that fuses data from an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) and a monocular camera which is capable of detecting helipads position in the image plane. The algorithm utilises manifold based nonlinear optimisation over preintegrated IMU measurements and reprojection error in temporally uniformly distributed keyframes, exhibiting good performance in terms of accuracy and being computationally feasible. Our contributions of this paper are the formal address of the landmarks Jacobian expressions and the adaptation of equality constrained Gauss-Newton method to this specific problem. Numerical simulations on MATLAB/Simulink confirm the validity of given claims. 

Title: Multi-Step Prediction of Occupancy Grid Maps with Recurrent Neural Networks
Abstract:  We investigate the multi-step prediction of the drivable space, represented by Occupancy Grid Maps (OGMs), for autonomous vehicles. Our motivation is that accurate multi-step prediction of the drivable space can efficiently improve path planning and navigation resulting in safe, comfortable and optimum paths in autonomous driving. We train a variety of Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) based architectures on the OGM sequences from the KITTI dataset. The results demonstrate significant improvement of the prediction accuracy using our proposed difference learning method, incorporating motion related features, over the state of the art. We remove the egomotion from the OGM sequences by transforming them into a common frame. Although in the transformed sequences the KITTI dataset is heavily biased toward static objects, by learning the difference between subsequent OGMs, our proposed method provides accurate prediction over both the static and moving objects. 

Title: Occ-Traj120: Occupancy Maps with Associated Trajectories
Abstract:  Trajectory modelling had been the principal research area for understanding and anticipating human behaviour. Predicting the dynamic path by observing the agent and its surrounding environment are essential for applications such as autonomous driving and indoor navigation suggestions. However, despite the numerous researches that had been presented, most available dataset does not contains any information on environmental factors---such as the occupancy representation of the map---which arguably plays a significant role on how an agent chooses its trajectory. We present a trajectory dataset with the corresponding occupancy representations of different local-maps. The dataset contains more than 120 locally-structured maps with occupancy representation and more than 110K trajectories in total. Each map has few hundred corresponding simulated trajectories that navigate from a spatial location of a room to another point. The dataset is freely available online. 

Title: LaTeS: Latent Space Distillation for Teacher-Student Driving Policy Learning
Abstract:  We describe a policy learning approach to map visual inputs to driving controls that leverages side information on semantics and affordances of objects in the scene from a secondary teacher model. While the teacher receives semantic segmentation and stop "intention" values as inputs and produces an estimate of the driving controls, the primary student model only receives images as inputs, and attempts to imitate the controls while being biased towards the latent representation of the teacher model. The latent representation encodes task-relevant information in the inputs of the teacher model, which are semantic segmentation of the image, and intention values for driving controls in the presence of objects in the scene such as vehicles, pedestrians and traffic lights. Our student model does not attempt to infer semantic segmentation or intention values from its inputs, nor to mimic the output behavior of the teacher. It instead attempts to capture the representation of the teacher inputs that are relevant for driving. Our training does not require laborious annotations such as maps or objects in three dimensions; even the teacher model just requires two-dimensional segmentation and intention values. Moreover, our model runs in real time of 59 FPS. We test our approach on recent simulated and real-world driving datasets, and introduce a more challenging but realistic evaluation protocol that considers a run that reaches the destination successful only if it does not violate common traffic rules. 

Title: A Robust Regression Approach for Robot Model Learning
Abstract:  Machine learning and data analysis have been used in many robotics fields, especially for modelling. Data are usually the result of sensor measurements and, as such, they might be subjected to noise and outliers. The presence of outliers has a huge impact on modelling the acquired data, resulting in inappropriate models. In this work a novel approach for outlier detection and rejection for input/output mapping in regression problems is presented. The robustness of the method is shown both through simulated data for linear and nonlinear regression, and real sensory data. Despite being validated by using artificial neural networks, the method can be generalized to any other regression method 

Title: Uncertainty-aware Self-supervised 3D Data Association
Abstract:  3D object trackers usually require training on large amounts of annotated data that is expensive and time-consuming to collect. Instead, we propose leveraging vast unlabeled datasets by self-supervised metric learning of 3D object trackers, with a focus on data association. Large scale annotations for unlabeled data are cheaply obtained by automatic object detection and association across frames. We show how these self-supervised annotations can be used in a principled manner to learn point-cloud embeddings that are effective for 3D tracking. We estimate and incorporate uncertainty in self-supervised tracking to learn more robust embeddings, without needing any labeled data. We design embeddings to differentiate objects across frames, and learn them using uncertainty-aware self-supervised training. Finally, we demonstrate their ability to perform accurate data association across frames, towards effective and accurate 3D tracking. Project videos and code are at https://jianrenw.github.io/Self-Supervised-3D-Data-Association. 

Title: Deep Learning in the Automotive Industry: Recent Advances and Application Examples
Abstract:  One of the most exciting technology breakthroughs in the last few years has been the rise of deep learning. State-of-the-art deep learning models are being widely deployed in academia and industry, across a variety of areas, from image analysis to natural language processing. These models have grown from fledgling research subjects to mature techniques in real-world use. The increasing scale of data, computational power and the associated algorithmic innovations are the main drivers for the progress we see in this field. These developments also have a huge potential for the automotive industry and therefore the interest in deep learning-based technology is growing. A lot of the product innovations, such as self-driving cars, parking and lane-change assist or safety functions, such as autonomous emergency braking, are powered by deep learning algorithms. Deep learning is poised to offer gains in performance and functionality for most ADAS (Advanced Driver Assistance System) solutions. Virtual sensing for vehicle dynamics application, vehicle inspection/heath monitoring, automated driving and data-driven product development are key areas that are expected to get the most attention. This article provides an overview of the recent advances and some associated challenges in deep learning techniques in the context of automotive applications. 

Title: SIDOD: A Synthetic Image Dataset for 3D Object Pose Recognition with Distractors
Abstract:  We present a new, publicly-available image dataset generated by the NVIDIA Deep Learning Data Synthesizer intended for use in object detection, pose estimation, and tracking applications. This dataset contains 144k stereo image pairs that synthetically combine 18 camera viewpoints of three photorealistic virtual environments with up to 10 objects (chosen randomly from the 21 object models of the YCB dataset [1]) and flying distractors. Object and camera pose, scene lighting, and quantity of objects and distractors were randomized. Each provided view includes RGB, depth, segmentation, and surface normal images, all pixel level. We describe our approach for domain randomization and provide insight into the decisions that produced the dataset. 

Title: The Self-Organization of Speech Sounds
Abstract:  The speech code is a vehicle of language: it defines a set of forms used by a community to carry information. Such a code is necessary to support the linguistic interactions that allow humans to communicate. How then may a speech code be formed prior to the existence of linguistic interactions? Moreover, the human speech code is discrete and compositional, shared by all the individuals of a community but different across communities, and phoneme inventories are characterized by statistical regularities. How can a speech code with these properties form? We try to approach these questions in the paper, using the "methodology of the artificial". We build a society of artificial agents, and detail a mechanism that shows the formation of a discrete speech code without pre-supposing the existence of linguistic capacities or of coordinated interactions. The mechanism is based on a low-level model of sensory-motor interactions. We show that the integration of certain very simple and non language-specific neural devices leads to the formation of a speech code that has properties similar to the human speech code. This result relies on the self-organizing properties of a generic coupling between perception and production within agents, and on the interactions between agents. The artificial system helps us to develop better intuitions on how speech might have appeared, by showing how self-organization might have helped natural selection to find speech. 

Title: Learning Robotic Assembly from CAD
Abstract:  In this work, motivated by recent manufacturing trends, we investigate autonomous robotic assembly. Industrial assembly tasks require contact-rich manipulation skills, which are challenging to acquire using classical control and motion planning approaches. Consequently, robot controllers for assembly domains are presently engineered to solve a particular task, and cannot easily handle variations in the product or environment. Reinforcement learning (RL) is a promising approach for autonomously acquiring robot skills that involve contact-rich dynamics. However, RL relies on random exploration for learning a control policy, which requires many robot executions, and often gets trapped in locally suboptimal solutions. Instead, we posit that prior knowledge, when available, can improve RL performance. We exploit the fact that in modern assembly domains, geometric information about the task is readily available via the CAD design files. We propose to leverage this prior knowledge by guiding RL along a geometric motion plan, calculated using the CAD data. We show that our approach effectively improves over traditional control approaches for tracking the motion plan, and can solve assembly tasks that require high precision, even without accurate state estimation. In addition, we propose a neural network architecture that can learn to track the motion plan, and generalize the assembly controller to changes in the object positions. 

Title: Active Learning of Inverse Models with Intrinsically Motivated Goal Exploration in Robots
Abstract:  We introduce the Self-Adaptive Goal Generation - Robust Intelligent Adaptive Curiosity (SAGG-RIAC) architecture as an intrinsi- cally motivated goal exploration mechanism which allows active learning of inverse models in high-dimensional redundant robots. This allows a robot to efficiently and actively learn distributions of parameterized motor skills/policies that solve a corresponding distribution of parameterized tasks/goals. The architecture makes the robot sample actively novel parameterized tasks in the task space, based on a measure of competence progress, each of which triggers low-level goal-directed learning of the motor policy pa- rameters that allow to solve it. For both learning and generalization, the system leverages regression techniques which allow to infer the motor policy parameters corresponding to a given novel parameterized task, and based on the previously learnt correspondences between policy and task parameters. We present experiments with high-dimensional continuous sensorimotor spaces in three different robotic setups: 1) learning the inverse kinematics in a highly-redundant robotic arm, 2) learning omnidirectional locomotion with motor primitives in a quadruped robot, 3) an arm learning to control a fishing rod with a flexible wire. We show that 1) exploration in the task space can be a lot faster than exploration in the actuator space for learning inverse models in redundant robots; 2) selecting goals maximizing competence progress creates developmental trajectories driving the robot to progressively focus on tasks of increasing complexity and is statistically significantly more efficient than selecting tasks randomly, as well as more efficient than different standard active motor babbling methods; 3) this architecture allows the robot to actively discover which parts of its task space it can learn to reach and which part it cannot. 

Title: Learning a Unified Control Policy for Safe Falling
Abstract:  Being able to fall safely is a necessary motor skill for humanoids performing highly dynamic tasks, such as running and jumping. We propose a new method to learn a policy that minimizes the maximal impulse during the fall. The optimization solves for both a discrete contact planning problem and a continuous optimal control problem. Once trained, the policy can compute the optimal next contacting body part (e.g. left foot, right foot, or hands), contact location and timing, and the required joint actuation. We represent the policy as a mixture of actor-critic neural network, which consists of n control policies and the corresponding value functions. Each pair of actor-critic is associated with one of the n possible contacting body parts. During execution, the policy corresponding to the highest value function will be executed while the associated body part will be the next contact with the ground. With this mixture of actor-critic architecture, the discrete contact sequence planning is solved through the selection of the best critics while the continuous control problem is solved by the optimization of actors. We show that our policy can achieve comparable, sometimes even higher, rewards than a recursive search of the action space using dynamic programming, while enjoying 50 to 400 times of speed gain during online execution. 

Title: Optimizing Correlated Graspability Score and Grasp Regression for Better Grasp Prediction
Abstract:  Grasping objects is one of the most important abilities to master for a robot in order to interact with its environment. Current state-of-the-art methods rely on deep neural networks trained to predict a graspability score jointly but separately from regression of an offset of grasp reference parameters, although the predicted offset could decrease the graspability score. In this paper, we extend a state-of-the-art neural network with a scorer which evaluates the graspability of a given position and introduce a novel loss function which correlates regression of grasp parameters with graspability score. We show that this novel architecture improves the performance from 81.95% for a state-of-the-art grasp detection network to 85.74% on Jacquard dataset. Because real-life applications generally feature scenes of multiple objects laid on a variable decor, we also introduce Jacquard+, a test-only extension of Jacquard dataset. Its role is to complete the traditional real robot evaluation by benchmarking the adaptability of a learned grasp prediction model on a different data distribution than the training one while remaining in totally reproducible conditions. Using this novel benchmark and evaluated through the Simulated Grasp Trial criterion, our proposed model outperforms a state-of-the-art one by 7 points. 

Title: robo-gym -- An Open Source Toolkit for Distributed Deep Reinforcement Learning on Real and Simulated Robots
Abstract:  Applying Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) to complex tasks in the field of robotics has proven to be very successful in the recent years. However, most of the publications focus either on applying it to a task in simulation or to a task in a real world setup. Although there are great examples of combining the two worlds with the help of transfer learning, it often requires a lot of additional work and fine-tuning to make the setup work effectively. In order to increase the use of DRL with real robots and reduce the gap between simulation and real world robotics, we propose an open source toolkit: robo-gym. We demonstrate a unified setup for simulation and real environments which enables a seamless transfer from training in simulation to application on the robot. We showcase the capabilities and the effectiveness of the framework with two real world applications featuring industrial robots: a mobile robot and a robot arm. The distributed capabilities of the framework enable several advantages like using distributed algorithms, separating the workload of simulation and training on different physical machines as well as enabling the future opportunity to train in simulation and real world at the same time. Finally we offer an overview and comparison of robo-gym with other frequently used state-of-the-art DRL frameworks. 

Title: Resource-Aware Programming for Robotic Vision
Abstract:  Humanoid robots are designed to operate in human centered environments. They face changing, dynamic environments in which they need to fulfill a multitude of challenging tasks. Such tasks differ in complexity, resource requirements, and execution time. Latest computer architectures of humanoid robots consist of several industrial PCs containing single- or dual-core processors. According to the SIA roadmap for semiconductors, many-core chips with hundreds to thousands of cores are expected to be available in the next decade. Utilizing the full power of a chip with huge amounts of resources requires new computing paradigms and methodologies. In this paper, we analyze a resource-aware computing methodology named Invasive Computing, to address these challenges. The benefits and limitations of the new programming model is analyzed using two widely used computer vision algorithms, the Harris Corner detector and SIFT (Scale Invariant Feature Transform) feature matching. The result indicate that the new programming model together with the extensions within the application layer, makes them highly adaptable; leading to better quality in the results obtained. 

Title: PnPNet: End-to-End Perception and Prediction with Tracking in the Loop
Abstract:  We tackle the problem of joint perception and motion forecasting in the context of self-driving vehicles. Towards this goal we propose PnPNet, an end-to-end model that takes as input sequential sensor data, and outputs at each time step object tracks and their future trajectories. The key component is a novel tracking module that generates object tracks online from detections and exploits trajectory level features for motion forecasting. Specifically, the object tracks get updated at each time step by solving both the data association problem and the trajectory estimation problem. Importantly, the whole model is end-to-end trainable and benefits from joint optimization of all tasks. We validate PnPNet on two large-scale driving datasets, and show significant improvements over the state-of-the-art with better occlusion recovery and more accurate future prediction. 

Title: Seeing the Un-Scene: Learning Amodal Semantic Maps for Room Navigation
Abstract:  We introduce a learning-based approach for room navigation using semantic maps. Our proposed architecture learns to predict top-down belief maps of regions that lie beyond the agent's field of view while modeling architectural and stylistic regularities in houses. First, we train a model to generate amodal semantic top-down maps indicating beliefs of location, size, and shape of rooms by learning the underlying architectural patterns in houses. Next, we use these maps to predict a point that lies in the target room and train a policy to navigate to the point. We empirically demonstrate that by predicting semantic maps, the model learns common correlations found in houses and generalizes to novel environments. We also demonstrate that reducing the task of room navigation to point navigation improves the performance further. 

Title: Interpretable Latent Spaces for Learning from Demonstration
Abstract:  Effective human-robot interaction, such as in robot learning from human demonstration, requires the learning agent to be able to ground abstract concepts (such as those contained within instructions) in a corresponding high-dimensional sensory input stream from the world. Models such as deep neural networks, with high capacity through their large parameter spaces, can be used to compress the high-dimensional sensory data to lower dimensional representations. These low-dimensional representations facilitate symbol grounding, but may not guarantee that the representation would be human-interpretable. We propose a method which utilises the grouping of user-defined symbols and their corresponding sensory observations in order to align the learnt compressed latent representation with the semantic notions contained in the abstract labels. We demonstrate this through experiments with both simulated and real-world object data, showing that such alignment can be achieved in a process of physical symbol grounding. 

Title: Learning of Behavior Trees for Autonomous Agents
Abstract:  Definition of an accurate system model for Automated Planner (AP) is often impractical, especially for real-world problems. Conversely, off-the-shelf planners fail to scale up and are domain dependent. These drawbacks are inherited from conventional transition systems such as Finite State Machines (FSMs) that describes the action-plan execution generated by the AP. On the other hand, Behavior Trees (BTs) represent a valid alternative to FSMs presenting many advantages in terms of modularity, reactiveness, scalability and domain-independence. In this paper, we propose a model-free AP framework using Genetic Programming (GP) to derive an optimal BT for an autonomous agent to achieve a given goal in unknown (but fully observable) environments. We illustrate the proposed framework using experiments conducted with an open source benchmark Mario AI for automated generation of BTs that can play the game character Mario to complete a certain level at various levels of difficulty to include enemies and obstacles. 

Title: Motion Prediction using Trajectory Sets and Self-Driving Domain Knowledge
Abstract:  Predicting the future motion of vehicles has been studied using various techniques, including stochastic policies, generative models, and regression. Recent work has shown that classification over a trajectory set, which approximates possible motions, achieves state-of-the-art performance and avoids issues like mode collapse. However, map information and the physical relationships between nearby trajectories is not fully exploited in this formulation. We build on classification-based approaches to motion prediction by adding an auxiliary loss that penalizes off-road predictions. This auxiliary loss can easily be \emph{pretrained} using only map information (e.g., off-road area), which significantly improves performance on small datasets. We also investigate weighted cross-entropy losses to capture spatial-temporal relationships among trajectories. Our final contribution is a detailed comparison of classification and ordinal regression on two public self-driving datasets. 

Title: Towards a Common Implementation of Reinforcement Learning for Multiple Robotic Tasks
Abstract:  Mobile robots are increasingly being employed for performing complex tasks in dynamic environments. Reinforcement learning (RL) methods are recognized to be promising for specifying such tasks in a relatively simple manner. However, the strong dependency between the learning method and the task to learn is a well-known problem that restricts practical implementations of RL in robotics, often requiring major modifications of parameters and adding other techniques for each particular task. In this paper we present a practical core implementation of RL which enables the learning process for multiple robotic tasks with minimal per-task tuning or none. Based on value iteration methods, this implementation includes a novel approach for action selection, called Q-biased softmax regression (QBIASSR), which avoids poor performance of the learning process when the robot reaches new unexplored states. Our approach takes advantage of the structure of the state space by attending the physical variables involved (e.g., distances to obstacles, X,Y,{\theta} pose, etc.), thus experienced sets of states may favor the decision-making process of unexplored or rarely-explored states. This improvement has a relevant role in reducing the tuning of the algorithm for particular tasks. Experiments with real and simulated robots, performed with the software framework also introduced here, show that our implementation is effectively able to learn different robotic tasks without tuning the learning method. Results also suggest that the combination of true online SARSA({\lambda}) with QBIASSR can outperform the existing RL core algorithms in low-dimensional robotic tasks. 

Title: Reinforcement Learning and Control as Probabilistic Inference: Tutorial and Review
Abstract:  The framework of reinforcement learning or optimal control provides a mathematical formalization of intelligent decision making that is powerful and broadly applicable. While the general form of the reinforcement learning problem enables effective reasoning about uncertainty, the connection between reinforcement learning and inference in probabilistic models is not immediately obvious. However, such a connection has considerable value when it comes to algorithm design: formalizing a problem as probabilistic inference in principle allows us to bring to bear a wide array of approximate inference tools, extend the model in flexible and powerful ways, and reason about compositionality and partial observability. In this article, we will discuss how a generalization of the reinforcement learning or optimal control problem, which is sometimes termed maximum entropy reinforcement learning, is equivalent to exact probabilistic inference in the case of deterministic dynamics, and variational inference in the case of stochastic dynamics. We will present a detailed derivation of this framework, overview prior work that has drawn on this and related ideas to propose new reinforcement learning and control algorithms, and describe perspectives on future research. 

Title: Automatic LQR Tuning Based on Gaussian Process Global Optimization
Abstract:  This paper proposes an automatic controller tuning framework based on linear optimal control combined with Bayesian optimization. With this framework, an initial set of controller gains is automatically improved according to a pre-defined performance objective evaluated from experimental data. The underlying Bayesian optimization algorithm is Entropy Search, which represents the latent objective as a Gaussian process and constructs an explicit belief over the location of the objective minimum. This is used to maximize the information gain from each experimental evaluation. Thus, this framework shall yield improved controllers with fewer evaluations compared to alternative approaches. A seven-degree-of-freedom robot arm balancing an inverted pole is used as the experimental demonstrator. Results of a two- and four-dimensional tuning problems highlight the method's potential for automatic controller tuning on robotic platforms. 

Title: Guided Cost Learning: Deep Inverse Optimal Control via Policy Optimization
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning can acquire complex behaviors from high-level specifications. However, defining a cost function that can be optimized effectively and encodes the correct task is challenging in practice. We explore how inverse optimal control (IOC) can be used to learn behaviors from demonstrations, with applications to torque control of high-dimensional robotic systems. Our method addresses two key challenges in inverse optimal control: first, the need for informative features and effective regularization to impose structure on the cost, and second, the difficulty of learning the cost function under unknown dynamics for high-dimensional continuous systems. To address the former challenge, we present an algorithm capable of learning arbitrary nonlinear cost functions, such as neural networks, without meticulous feature engineering. To address the latter challenge, we formulate an efficient sample-based approximation for MaxEnt IOC. We evaluate our method on a series of simulated tasks and real-world robotic manipulation problems, demonstrating substantial improvement over prior methods both in terms of task complexity and sample efficiency. 

Title: Safe Exploration in Finite Markov Decision Processes with Gaussian Processes
Abstract:  In classical reinforcement learning, when exploring an environment, agents accept arbitrary short term loss for long term gain. This is infeasible for safety critical applications, such as robotics, where even a single unsafe action may cause system failure. In this paper, we address the problem of safely exploring finite Markov decision processes (MDP). We define safety in terms of an, a priori unknown, safety constraint that depends on states and actions. We aim to explore the MDP under this constraint, assuming that the unknown function satisfies regularity conditions expressed via a Gaussian process prior. We develop a novel algorithm for this task and prove that it is able to completely explore the safely reachable part of the MDP without violating the safety constraint. To achieve this, it cautiously explores safe states and actions in order to gain statistical confidence about the safety of unvisited state-action pairs from noisy observations collected while navigating the environment. Moreover, the algorithm explicitly considers reachability when exploring the MDP, ensuring that it does not get stuck in any state with no safe way out. We demonstrate our method on digital terrain models for the task of exploring an unknown map with a rover. 

Title: LatentFusion: End-to-End Differentiable Reconstruction and Rendering for Unseen Object Pose Estimation
Abstract:  Current 6D object pose estimation methods usually require a 3D model for each object. These methods also require additional training in order to incorporate new objects. As a result, they are difficult to scale to a large number of objects and cannot be directly applied to unseen objects. We propose a novel framework for 6D pose estimation of unseen objects. We present a network that reconstructs a latent 3D representation of an object using a small number of reference views at inference time. Our network is able to render the latent 3D representation from arbitrary views. Using this neural renderer, we directly optimize for pose given an input image. By training our network with a large number of 3D shapes for reconstruction and rendering, our network generalizes well to unseen objects. We present a new dataset for unseen object pose estimation--MOPED. We evaluate the performance of our method for unseen object pose estimation on MOPED as well as the ModelNet and LINEMOD datasets. Our method performs competitively to supervised methods that are trained on those objects. Code and data is available at https://keunhong.com/publications/latentfusion/. 

Title: SPLODE: Semi-Probabilistic Point and Line Odometry with Depth Estimation from RGB-D Camera Motion
Abstract:  Active depth cameras suffer from several limitations, which cause incomplete and noisy depth maps, and may consequently affect the performance of RGB-D Odometry. To address this issue, this paper presents a visual odometry method based on point and line features that leverages both measurements from a depth sensor and depth estimates from camera motion. Depth estimates are generated continuously by a probabilistic depth estimation framework for both types of features to compensate for the lack of depth measurements and inaccurate feature depth associations. The framework models explicitly the uncertainty of triangulating depth from both point and line observations to validate and obtain precise estimates. Furthermore, depth measurements are exploited by propagating them through a depth map registration module and using a frame-to-frame motion estimation method that considers 3D-to-2D and 2D-to-3D reprojection errors, independently. Results on RGB-D sequences captured on large indoor and outdoor scenes, where depth sensor limitations are critical, show that the combination of depth measurements and estimates through our approach is able to overcome the absence and inaccuracy of depth measurements. 

Title: Deep Learning and Control Algorithms of Direct Perception for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Based on the direct perception paradigm of autonomous driving, we investigate and modify the CNNs (convolutional neural networks) AlexNet and GoogLeNet that map an input image to few perception indicators (heading angle, distances to preceding cars, and distance to road centerline) for estimating driving affordances in highway traffic. We also design a controller with these indicators and the short-range sensor information of TORCS (the open racing car simulator) for driving simulated cars to avoid collisions. We collect a set of images from a TORCS camera in various driving scenarios, train these CNNs using the dataset, test them in unseen traffics, and find that they perform better than earlier algorithms and controllers in terms of training efficiency and driving stability. Source code and data are available on our website. 

Title: InteriorNet: Mega-scale Multi-sensor Photo-realistic Indoor Scenes Dataset
Abstract:  Datasets have gained an enormous amount of popularity in the computer vision community, from training and evaluation of Deep Learning-based methods to benchmarking Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM). Without a doubt, synthetic imagery bears a vast potential due to scalability in terms of amounts of data obtainable without tedious manual ground truth annotations or measurements. Here, we present a dataset with the aim of providing a higher degree of photo-realism, larger scale, more variability as well as serving a wider range of purposes compared to existing datasets. Our dataset leverages the availability of millions of professional interior designs and millions of production-level furniture and object assets -- all coming with fine geometric details and high-resolution texture. We render high-resolution and high frame-rate video sequences following realistic trajectories while supporting various camera types as well as providing inertial measurements. Together with the release of the dataset, we will make executable program of our interactive simulator software as well as our renderer available at https://interiornetdataset.github.io. To showcase the usability and uniqueness of our dataset, we show benchmarking results of both sparse and dense SLAM algorithms. 

Title: Transferring Autonomous Driving Knowledge on Simulated and Real Intersections
Abstract:  We view intersection handling on autonomous vehicles as a reinforcement learning problem, and study its behavior in a transfer learning setting. We show that a network trained on one type of intersection generally is not able to generalize to other intersections. However, a network that is pre-trained on one intersection and fine-tuned on another performs better on the new task compared to training in isolation. This network also retains knowledge of the prior task, even though some forgetting occurs. Finally, we show that the benefits of fine-tuning hold when transferring simulated intersection handling knowledge to a real autonomous vehicle. 

Title: SURREAL-System: Fully-Integrated Stack for Distributed Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  We present an overview of SURREAL-System, a reproducible, flexible, and scalable framework for distributed reinforcement learning (RL). The framework consists of a stack of four layers: Provisioner, Orchestrator, Protocol, and Algorithms. The Provisioner abstracts away the machine hardware and node pools across different cloud providers. The Orchestrator provides a unified interface for scheduling and deploying distributed algorithms by high-level description, which is capable of deploying to a wide range of hardware from a personal laptop to full-fledged cloud clusters. The Protocol provides network communication primitives optimized for RL. Finally, the SURREAL algorithms, such as Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) and Evolution Strategies (ES), can easily scale to 1000s of CPU cores and 100s of GPUs. The learning performances of our distributed algorithms establish new state-of-the-art on OpenAI Gym and Robotics Suites tasks. 

Title: Capturing Object Detection Uncertainty in Multi-Layer Grid Maps
Abstract:  We propose a deep convolutional object detector for automated driving applications that also estimates classification, pose and shape uncertainty of each detected object. The input consists of a multi-layer grid map which is well-suited for sensor fusion, free-space estimation and machine learning. Based on the estimated pose and shape uncertainty we approximate object hulls with bounded collision probability which we find helpful for subsequent trajectory planning tasks. We train our models based on the KITTI object detection data set. In a quantitative and qualitative evaluation some models show a similar performance and superior robustness compared to previously developed object detectors. However, our evaluation also points to undesired data set properties which should be addressed when training data-driven models or creating new data sets. 

Title: Colorisation et texturation temps r\'eel d'environnements urbains par syst\`eme mobile avec scanner laser et cam\'era fish-eye
Abstract:  We present here a real time mobile mapping system mounted on a vehicle. The terrestrial acquisition system is based on a geolocation system and two sensors, namely, a laser scanner and a camera with a fish-eye lens. We produce 3D colored points cloud and textured models of the environment. Once the system has been calibrated, the data acquisition and processing are done "on the way". This article mainly presents our methods of colorization of point cloud, triangulation and texture mapping. 

Title: On Reward Shaping for Mobile Robot Navigation: A Reinforcement Learning and SLAM Based Approach
Abstract:  We present a map-less path planning algorithm based on Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) for mobile robots navigating in unknown environment that only relies on 40-dimensional raw laser data and odometry information. The planner is trained using a reward function shaped based on the online knowledge of the map of the training environment, obtained using grid-based Rao-Blackwellized particle filter, in an attempt to enhance the obstacle awareness of the agent. The agent is trained in a complex simulated environment and evaluated in two unseen ones. We show that the policy trained using the introduced reward function not only outperforms standard reward functions in terms of convergence speed, by a reduction of 36.9\% of the iteration steps, and reduction of the collision samples, but it also drastically improves the behaviour of the agent in unseen environments, respectively by 23\% in a simpler workspace and by 45\% in a more clustered one. Furthermore, the policy trained in the simulation environment can be directly and successfully transferred to the real robot. A video of our experiments can be found at: https://youtu.be/UEV7W6e6ZqI 

Title: Autonomous Farm Vehicles: Prototype of Power Reaper
Abstract:  Chapter 2 will begin with introduction of Agricultural Robotics. There will be a literature review of the mechanical structure, vision and control algorithms. In chapter 3 we will discuss the methodology in detail using block diagrams and flowcharts. The results of the tested and the proposed algorithms will also be displayed. In chapter 4 we will discuss the results in detail and how they are of significance in our work. In chapter 5 we will conclude our work and discuss some future perspectives. In appendices we will provide some background information necessary regarding this project. 

Title: AVP-SLAM: Semantic Visual Mapping and Localization for Autonomous Vehicles in the Parking Lot
Abstract:  Autonomous valet parking is a specific application for autonomous vehicles. In this task, vehicles need to navigate in narrow, crowded and GPS-denied parking lots. Accurate localization ability is of great importance. Traditional visual-based methods suffer from tracking lost due to texture-less regions, repeated structures, and appearance changes. In this paper, we exploit robust semantic features to build the map and localize vehicles in parking lots. Semantic features contain guide signs, parking lines, speed bumps, etc, which typically appear in parking lots. Compared with traditional features, these semantic features are long-term stable and robust to the perspective and illumination change. We adopt four surround-view cameras to increase the perception range. Assisting by an IMU (Inertial Measurement Unit) and wheel encoders, the proposed system generates a global visual semantic map. This map is further used to localize vehicles at the centimeter level. We analyze the accuracy and recall of our system and compare it against other methods in real experiments. Furthermore, we demonstrate the practicability of the proposed system by the autonomous parking application. 

Title: Distributed Wildfire Surveillance with Autonomous Aircraft using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Teams of autonomous unmanned aircraft can be used to monitor wildfires, enabling firefighters to make informed decisions. However, controlling multiple autonomous fixed-wing aircraft to maximize forest fire coverage is a complex problem. The state space is high dimensional, the fire propagates stochastically, the sensor information is imperfect, and the aircraft must coordinate with each other to accomplish their mission. This work presents two deep reinforcement learning approaches for training decentralized controllers that accommodate the high dimensionality and uncertainty inherent in the problem. The first approach controls the aircraft using immediate observations of the individual aircraft. The second approach allows aircraft to collaborate on a map of the wildfire's state and maintain a time history of locations visited, which are used as inputs to the controller. Simulation results show that both approaches allow the aircraft to accurately track wildfire expansions and outperform an online receding horizon controller. Additional simulations demonstrate that the approach scales with different numbers of aircraft and generalizes to different wildfire shapes. 

Title: ETRI-Activity3D: A Large-Scale RGB-D Dataset for Robots to Recognize Daily Activities of the Elderly
Abstract:  Deep learning, based on which many modern algorithms operate, is well known to be data-hungry. In particular, the datasets appropriate for the intended application are difficult to obtain. To cope with this situation, we introduce a new dataset called ETRI-Activity3D, focusing on the daily activities of the elderly in robot-view. The major characteristics of the new dataset are as follows: 1) practical action categories that are selected from the close observation of the daily lives of the elderly; 2) realistic data collection, which reflects the robot's working environment and service situations; and 3) a large-scale dataset that overcomes the limitations of the current 3D activity analysis benchmark datasets. The proposed dataset contains 112,620 samples including RGB videos, depth maps, and skeleton sequences. During the data acquisition, 100 subjects were asked to perform 55 daily activities. Additionally, we propose a novel network called four-stream adaptive CNN (FSA-CNN). The proposed FSA-CNN has three main properties: robustness to spatio-temporal variations, input-adaptive activation function, and extension of the conventional two-stream approach. In the experiment section, we confirmed the superiority of the proposed FSA-CNN using NTU RGB+D and ETRI-Activity3D. Further, the domain difference between both groups of age was verified experimentally. Finally, the extension of FSA-CNN to deal with the multimodal data was investigated. 

Title: Stochastic Optimal Control as Approximate Input Inference
Abstract:  Optimal control of stochastic nonlinear dynamical systems is a major challenge in the domain of robot learning. Given the intractability of the global control problem, state-of-the-art algorithms focus on approximate sequential optimization techniques, that heavily rely on heuristics for regularization in order to achieve stable convergence. By building upon the duality between inference and control, we develop the view of Optimal Control as Input Estimation, devising a probabilistic stochastic optimal control formulation that iteratively infers the optimal input distributions by minimizing an upper bound of the control cost. Inference is performed through Expectation Maximization and message passing on a probabilistic graphical model of the dynamical system, and time-varying linear Gaussian feedback controllers are extracted from the joint state-action distribution. This perspective incorporates uncertainty quantification, effective initialization through priors, and the principled regularization inherent to the Bayesian treatment. Moreover, it can be shown that for deterministic linearized systems, our framework derives the maximum entropy linear quadratic optimal control law. We provide a complete and detailed derivation of our probabilistic approach and highlight its advantages in comparison to other deterministic and probabilistic solvers. 

Title: Probabilistically Safe Robot Planning with Confidence-Based Human Predictions
Abstract:  In order to safely operate around humans, robots can employ predictive models of human motion. Unfortunately, these models cannot capture the full complexity of human behavior and necessarily introduce simplifying assumptions. As a result, predictions may degrade whenever the observed human behavior departs from the assumed structure, which can have negative implications for safety. In this paper, we observe that how "rational" human actions appear under a particular model can be viewed as an indicator of that model's ability to describe the human's current motion. By reasoning about this model confidence in a real-time Bayesian framework, we show that the robot can very quickly modulate its predictions to become more uncertain when the model performs poorly. Building on recent work in provably-safe trajectory planning, we leverage these confidence-aware human motion predictions to generate assured autonomous robot motion. Our new analysis combines worst-case tracking error guarantees for the physical robot with probabilistic time-varying human predictions, yielding a quantitative, probabilistic safety certificate. We demonstrate our approach with a quadcopter navigating around a human. 

Title: A Branch-and-Bound Algorithm for Checkerboard Extraction in Camera-Laser Calibration
Abstract:  We address the problem of camera-to-laser-scanner calibration using a checkerboard and multiple image-laser scan pairs. Distinguishing which laser points measure the checkerboard and which lie on the background is essential to any such system. We formulate the checkerboard extraction as a combinatorial optimization problem with a clear cut objective function. We propose a branch-and-bound technique that deterministically and globally optimizes the objective. Unlike what is available in the literature, the proposed method is not heuristic and does not require assumptions such as constraints on the background or relying on discontinuity of the range measurements to partition the data into line segments. The proposed approach is generic and can be applied to both 3D or 2D laser scanners as well as the cases where multiple checkerboards are present. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach by providing numerical simulations as well as experimental results. 

Title: Accelerating Online Reinforcement Learning with Offline Datasets
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning provides an appealing formalism for learning control policies from experience. However, the classic active formulation of reinforcement learning necessitates a lengthy active exploration process for each behavior, making it difficult to apply in real-world settings. If we can instead allow reinforcement learning to effectively use previously collected data to aid the online learning process, where the data could be expert demonstrations or more generally any prior experience, we could make reinforcement learning a substantially more practical tool. While a number of recent methods have sought to learn offline from previously collected data, it remains exceptionally difficult to train a policy with offline data and improve it further with online reinforcement learning. In this paper we systematically analyze why this problem is so challenging, and propose a novel algorithm that combines sample-efficient dynamic programming with maximum likelihood policy updates, providing a simple and effective framework that is able to leverage large amounts of offline data and then quickly perform online fine-tuning of reinforcement learning policies. We show that our method enables rapid learning of skills with a combination of prior demonstration data and online experience across a suite of difficult dexterous manipulation and benchmark tasks. 

Title: Offline and Online calibration of Mobile Robot and SLAM Device for Navigation
Abstract:  Robot navigation technology is required to accomplish difficult tasks in various environments. In navigation, it is necessary to know the information of the external environments and the state of the robot under the environment. On the other hand, various studies have been done on SLAM technology, which is also used for navigation, but also applied to devices for Mixed Reality and the like. In this paper, we propose a robot-device calibration method for navigation with a device using SLAM technology on a robot. The calibration is performed by using the position and orientation information given by the robot and the device. In the calibration, the most efficient way of movement is clarified according to the restriction of the robot movement. Furthermore, we also show a method to dynamically correct the position and orientation of the robot so that the information of the external environment and the shape information of the robot maintain consistency in order to reduce the dynamic error occurring during navigation. Our method can be easily used for various kinds of robots and localization with sufficient precision for navigation is possible with offline calibration and online position correction. In the experiments, we confirm the parameters obtained by two types of offline calibration according to the degree of freedom of robot movement and validate the effectiveness of online correction method by plotting localized position error during robot's intense movement. Finally, we show the demonstration of navigation using SLAM device. 

Title: Learning Preferences for Manipulation Tasks from Online Coactive Feedback
Abstract:  We consider the problem of learning preferences over trajectories for mobile manipulators such as personal robots and assembly line robots. The preferences we learn are more intricate than simple geometric constraints on trajectories; they are rather governed by the surrounding context of various objects and human interactions in the environment. We propose a coactive online learning framework for teaching preferences in contextually rich environments. The key novelty of our approach lies in the type of feedback expected from the user: the human user does not need to demonstrate optimal trajectories as training data, but merely needs to iteratively provide trajectories that slightly improve over the trajectory currently proposed by the system. We argue that this coactive preference feedback can be more easily elicited than demonstrations of optimal trajectories. Nevertheless, theoretical regret bounds of our algorithm match the asymptotic rates of optimal trajectory algorithms. We implement our algorithm on two high degree-of-freedom robots, PR2 and Baxter, and present three intuitive mechanisms for providing such incremental feedback. In our experimental evaluation we consider two context rich settings -- household chores and grocery store checkout -- and show that users are able to train the robot with just a few feedbacks (taking only a few minutes).\footnote{Parts of this work has been published at NIPS and ISRR conferences~\citep{Jain13,Jain13b}. This journal submission presents a consistent full paper, and also includes the proof of regret bounds, more details of the robotic system, and a thorough related work.} 

Title: Lane Detection For Prototype Autonomous Vehicle
Abstract:  Unmanned vehicle technologies are an area of great interest in theory and practice today. These technologies have advanced considerably after the first applications have been implemented and cause a rapid change in human life. Autonomous vehicles are also a big part of these technologies. The most important action of a driver has to do is to follow the lanes on the way to the destination. By using image processing and artificial intelligence techniques, an autonomous vehicle can move successfully without a driver help. They can go from the initial point to the specified target by applying pre-defined rules. There are also rules for proper tracking of the lanes. Many accidents are caused due to insufficient follow-up of the lanes and non-compliance with these rules. The majority of these accidents also result in injury and death. In this paper, we present an autonomous vehicle prototype that follows lanes via image processing techniques, which are a major part of autonomous vehicle technology. Autonomous movement capability is provided by using some image processing algorithms such as canny edge detection, Sobel filter, etc. We implemented and tested these algorithms on the vehicle. The vehicle detected and followed the determined lanes. By that way, it went to the destination successfully. 

Title: Find my mug: Efficient object search with a mobile robot using semantic segmentation
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose an efficient semantic segmentation framework for indoor scenes, tailored to the application on a mobile robot. Semantic segmentation can help robots to gain a reasonable understanding of their environment, but to reach this goal, the algorithms not only need to be accurate, but also fast and robust. Therefore, we developed an optimized 3D point cloud processing framework based on a Randomized Decision Forest, achieving competitive results at sufficiently high frame rates. We evaluate the capabilities of our method on the popular NYU depth dataset and our own data and demonstrate its feasibility by deploying it on a mobile service robot, for which we could optimize an object search procedure using our results. 

Title: Adversarial Generation of Informative Trajectories for Dynamics System Identification
Abstract:  Dynamic System Identification approaches usually heavily rely on the evolutionary and gradient-based optimisation techniques to produce optimal excitation trajectories for determining the physical parameters of robot platforms. Current optimisation techniques tend to generate single trajectories. This is expensive, and intractable for longer trajectories, thus limiting their efficacy for system identification. We propose to tackle this issue by using multiple shorter cyclic trajectories, which can be generated in parallel, and subsequently combined together to achieve the same effect as a longer trajectory. Crucially, we show how to scale this approach even further by increasing the generation speed and quality of the dataset through the use of generative adversarial network (GAN) based architectures to produce a large databases of valid and diverse excitation trajectories. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first robotics work to explore system identification with multiple cyclic trajectories and to develop GAN-based techniques for scaleably producing excitation trajectories that are diverse in both control parameter and inertial parameter spaces. We show that our approach dramatically accelerates trajectory optimisation, while simultaneously providing more accurate system identification than the conventional approach. 

Title: Safety Augmented Value Estimation from Demonstrations (SAVED): Safe Deep Model-Based RL for Sparse Cost Robotic Tasks
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning (RL) for robotics is challenging due to the difficulty in hand-engineering a dense cost function, which can lead to unintended behavior, and dynamical uncertainty, which makes exploration and constraint satisfaction challenging. We address these issues with a new model-based reinforcement learning algorithm, Safety Augmented Value Estimation from Demonstrations (SAVED), which uses supervision that only identifies task completion and a modest set of suboptimal demonstrations to constrain exploration and learn efficiently while handling complex constraints. We then compare SAVED with 3 state-of-the-art model-based and model-free RL algorithms on 6 standard simulation benchmarks involving navigation and manipulation and a physical knot-tying task on the da Vinci surgical robot. Results suggest that SAVED outperforms prior methods in terms of success rate, constraint satisfaction, and sample efficiency, making it feasible to safely learn a control policy directly on a real robot in less than an hour. For tasks on the robot, baselines succeed less than 5% of the time while SAVED has a success rate of over 75% in the first 50 training iterations. Code and supplementary material is available at https://tinyurl.com/saved-rl. 

Title: Learning Monocular Reactive UAV Control in Cluttered Natural Environments
Abstract:  Autonomous navigation for large Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) is fairly straight-forward, as expensive sensors and monitoring devices can be employed. In contrast, obstacle avoidance remains a challenging task for Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) which operate at low altitude in cluttered environments. Unlike large vehicles, MAVs can only carry very light sensors, such as cameras, making autonomous navigation through obstacles much more challenging. In this paper, we describe a system that navigates a small quadrotor helicopter autonomously at low altitude through natural forest environments. Using only a single cheap camera to perceive the environment, we are able to maintain a constant velocity of up to 1.5m/s. Given a small set of human pilot demonstrations, we use recent state-of-the-art imitation learning techniques to train a controller that can avoid trees by adapting the MAVs heading. We demonstrate the performance of our system in a more controlled environment indoors, and in real natural forest environments outdoors. 

Title: Autonomous Driving using Safe Reinforcement Learning by Incorporating a Regret-based Human Lane-Changing Decision Model
Abstract:  It is expected that many human drivers will still prefer to drive themselves even if the self-driving technologies are ready. Therefore, human-driven vehicles and autonomous vehicles (AVs) will coexist in a mixed traffic for a long time. To enable AVs to safely and efficiently maneuver in this mixed traffic, it is critical that the AVs can understand how humans cope with risks and make driving-related decisions. On the other hand, the driving environment is highly dynamic and ever-changing, and it is thus difficult to enumerate all the scenarios and hard-code the controllers. To face up these challenges, in this work, we incorporate a human decision-making model in reinforcement learning to control AVs for safe and efficient operations. Specifically, we adapt regret theory to describe a human driver's lane-changing behavior, and fit the personalized models to individual drivers for predicting their lane-changing decisions. The predicted decisions are incorporated in the safety constraints for reinforcement learning in training and in implementation. We then use an extended version of double deep Q-network (DDQN) to train our AV controller within the safety set. By doing so, the amount of collisions in training is reduced to zero, while the training accuracy is not impinged. 

Title: Vision-and-Dialog Navigation
Abstract:  Robots navigating in human environments should use language to ask for assistance and be able to understand human responses. To study this challenge, we introduce Cooperative Vision-and-Dialog Navigation, a dataset of over 2k embodied, human-human dialogs situated in simulated, photorealistic home environments. The Navigator asks questions to their partner, the Oracle, who has privileged access to the best next steps the Navigator should take according to a shortest path planner. To train agents that search an environment for a goal location, we define the Navigation from Dialog History task. An agent, given a target object and a dialog history between humans cooperating to find that object, must infer navigation actions towards the goal in unexplored environments. We establish an initial, multi-modal sequence-to-sequence model and demonstrate that looking farther back in the dialog history improves performance. Sourcecode and a live interface demo can be found at https://cvdn.dev/ 

Title: Robotic Pick-and-Place of Novel Objects in Clutter with Multi-Affordance Grasping and Cross-Domain Image Matching
Abstract:  This paper presents a robotic pick-and-place system that is capable of grasping and recognizing both known and novel objects in cluttered environments. The key new feature of the system is that it handles a wide range of object categories without needing any task-specific training data for novel objects. To achieve this, it first uses a category-agnostic affordance prediction algorithm to select and execute among four different grasping primitive behaviors. It then recognizes picked objects with a cross-domain image classification framework that matches observed images to product images. Since product images are readily available for a wide range of objects (e.g., from the web), the system works out-of-the-box for novel objects without requiring any additional training data. Exhaustive experimental results demonstrate that our multi-affordance grasping achieves high success rates for a wide variety of objects in clutter, and our recognition algorithm achieves high accuracy for both known and novel grasped objects. The approach was part of the MIT-Princeton Team system that took 1st place in the stowing task at the 2017 Amazon Robotics Challenge. All code, datasets, and pre-trained models are available online at http://arc.cs.princeton.edu 

Title: Intention-aware Long Horizon Trajectory Prediction of Surrounding Vehicles using Dual LSTM Networks
Abstract:  As autonomous vehicles (AVs) need to interact with other road users, it is of importance to comprehensively understand the dynamic traffic environment, especially the future possible trajectories of surrounding vehicles. This paper presents an algorithm for long-horizon trajectory prediction of surrounding vehicles using a dual long short term memory (LSTM) network, which is capable of effectively improving prediction accuracy in strongly interactive driving environments. In contrast to traditional approaches which require trajectory matching and manual feature selection, this method can automatically learn high-level spatial-temporal features of driver behaviors from naturalistic driving data through sequence learning. By employing two blocks of LSTMs, the proposed method feeds the sequential trajectory to the first LSTM for driver intention recognition as an intermediate indicator, which is immediately followed by a second LSTM for future trajectory prediction. Test results from real-world highway driving data show that the proposed method can, in comparison to state-of-art methods, output more accurate and reasonable estimate of different future trajectories over 5s time horizon with root mean square error (RMSE) for longitudinal and lateral prediction less than 5.77m and 0.49m, respectively. 

Title: Robust Real-time RGB-D Visual Odometry in Dynamic Environments via Rigid Motion Model
Abstract:  In the paper, we propose a robust real-time visual odometry in dynamic environments via rigid-motion model updated by scene flow. The proposed algorithm consists of spatial motion segmentation and temporal motion tracking. The spatial segmentation first generates several motion hypotheses by using a grid-based scene flow and clusters the extracted motion hypotheses, separating objects that move independently of one another. Further, we use a dual-mode motion model to consistently distinguish between the static and dynamic parts in the temporal motion tracking stage. Finally, the proposed algorithm estimates the pose of a camera by taking advantage of the region classified as static parts. In order to evaluate the performance of visual odometry under the existence of dynamic rigid objects, we use self-collected dataset containing RGB-D images and motion capture data for ground-truth. We compare our algorithm with state-of-the-art visual odometry algorithms. The validation results suggest that the proposed algorithm can estimate the pose of a camera robustly and accurately in dynamic environments. 

Title: Interactive Visual Grounding of Referring Expressions for Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract:  This paper presents INGRESS, a robot system that follows human natural language instructions to pick and place everyday objects. The core issue here is the grounding of referring expressions: infer objects and their relationships from input images and language expressions. INGRESS allows for unconstrained object categories and unconstrained language expressions. Further, it asks questions to disambiguate referring expressions interactively. To achieve these, we take the approach of grounding by generation and propose a two-stage neural network model for grounding. The first stage uses a neural network to generate visual descriptions of objects, compares them with the input language expression, and identifies a set of candidate objects. The second stage uses another neural network to examine all pairwise relations between the candidates and infers the most likely referred object. The same neural networks are used for both grounding and question generation for disambiguation. Experiments show that INGRESS outperformed a state-of-the-art method on the RefCOCO dataset and in robot experiments with humans. 

Title: Watch-n-Patch: Unsupervised Learning of Actions and Relations
Abstract:  There is a large variation in the activities that humans perform in their everyday lives. We consider modeling these composite human activities which comprises multiple basic level actions in a completely unsupervised setting. Our model learns high-level co-occurrence and temporal relations between the actions. We consider the video as a sequence of short-term action clips, which contains human-words and object-words. An activity is about a set of action-topics and object-topics indicating which actions are present and which objects are interacting with. We then propose a new probabilistic model relating the words and the topics. It allows us to model long-range action relations that commonly exist in the composite activities, which is challenging in previous works. We apply our model to the unsupervised action segmentation and clustering, and to a novel application that detects forgotten actions, which we call action patching. For evaluation, we contribute a new challenging RGB-D activity video dataset recorded by the new Kinect v2, which contains several human daily activities as compositions of multiple actions interacting with different objects. Moreover, we develop a robotic system that watches people and reminds people by applying our action patching algorithm. Our robotic setup can be easily deployed on any assistive robot. 

Title: Vehicle Ego-Lane Estimation with Sensor Failure Modeling
Abstract:  We present a probabilistic ego-lane estimation algorithm for highway-like scenarios that is designed to increase the accuracy of the ego-lane estimate, which can be obtained relying only on a noisy line detector and tracker. The contribution relies on a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) with a transient failure model. The proposed algorithm exploits the OpenStreetMap (or other cartographic services) road property lane number as the expected number of lanes and leverages consecutive, possibly incomplete, observations. The algorithm effectiveness is proven by employing different line detectors and showing we could achieve much more usable, i.e. stable and reliable, ego-lane estimates over more than 100 Km of highway scenarios, recorded both in Italy and Spain. Moreover, as we could not find a suitable dataset for a quantitative comparison with other approaches, we collected datasets and manually annotated the Ground Truth about the vehicle ego-lane. Such datasets are made publicly available for usage from the scientific community. 

Title: Learning to Navigate by Growing Deep Networks
Abstract:  Adaptability is central to autonomy. Intuitively, for high-dimensional learning problems such as navigating based on vision, internal models with higher complexity allow to accurately encode the information available. However, most learning methods rely on models with a fixed structure and complexity. In this paper, we present a self-supervised framework for robots to learn to navigate, without any prior knowledge of the environment, by incrementally building the structure of a deep network as new data becomes available. Our framework captures images from a monocular camera and self labels the images to continuously train and predict actions from a computationally efficient adaptive deep architecture based on Autoencoders (AE), in a self-supervised fashion. The deep architecture, named Reinforced Adaptive Denoising Autoencoders (RA-DAE), uses reinforcement learning to dynamically change the network structure by adding or removing neurons. Experiments were conducted in simulation and real-world indoor and outdoor environments to assess the potential of self-supervised navigation. RA-DAE demonstrates better performance than equivalent non-adaptive deep learning alternatives and can continue to expand its knowledge, trading-off past and present information. 

Title: A Joint Model of Language and Perception for Grounded Attribute Learning
Abstract:  As robots become more ubiquitous and capable, it becomes ever more important to enable untrained users to easily interact with them. Recently, this has led to study of the language grounding problem, where the goal is to extract representations of the meanings of natural language tied to perception and actuation in the physical world. In this paper, we present an approach for joint learning of language and perception models for grounded attribute induction. Our perception model includes attribute classifiers, for example to detect object color and shape, and the language model is based on a probabilistic categorial grammar that enables the construction of rich, compositional meaning representations. The approach is evaluated on the task of interpreting sentences that describe sets of objects in a physical workspace. We demonstrate accurate task performance and effective latent-variable concept induction in physical grounded scenes. 

Title: Under the Radar: Learning to Predict Robust Keypoints for Odometry Estimation and Metric Localisation in Radar
Abstract:  This paper presents a self-supervised framework for learning to detect robust keypoints for odometry estimation and metric localisation in radar. By embedding a differentiable point-based motion estimator inside our architecture, we learn keypoint locations, scores and descriptors from localisation error alone. This approach avoids imposing any assumption on what makes a robust keypoint and crucially allows them to be optimised for our application. Furthermore the architecture is sensor agnostic and can be applied to most modalities. We run experiments on 280km of real world driving from the Oxford Radar RobotCar Dataset and improve on the state-of-the-art in point-based radar odometry, reducing errors by up to 45% whilst running an order of magnitude faster, simultaneously solving metric loop closures. Combining these outputs, we provide a framework capable of full mapping and localisation with radar in urban environments. 

Title: Synthesizing Training Data for Object Detection in Indoor Scenes
Abstract:  Detection of objects in cluttered indoor environments is one of the key enabling functionalities for service robots. The best performing object detection approaches in computer vision exploit deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) to simultaneously detect and categorize the objects of interest in cluttered scenes. Training of such models typically requires large amounts of annotated training data which is time consuming and costly to obtain. In this work we explore the ability of using synthetically generated composite images for training state-of-the-art object detectors, especially for object instance detection. We superimpose 2D images of textured object models into images of real environments at variety of locations and scales. Our experiments evaluate different superimposition strategies ranging from purely image-based blending all the way to depth and semantics informed positioning of the object models into real scenes. We demonstrate the effectiveness of these object detector training strategies on two publicly available datasets, the GMU-Kitchens and the Washington RGB-D Scenes v2. As one observation, augmenting some hand-labeled training data with synthetic examples carefully composed onto scenes yields object detectors with comparable performance to using much more hand-labeled data. Broadly, this work charts new opportunities for training detectors for new objects by exploiting existing object model repositories in either a purely automatic fashion or with only a very small number of human-annotated examples. 

Title: Identification of Invariant Sensorimotor Structures as a Prerequisite for the Discovery of Objects
Abstract:  Perceiving the surrounding environment in terms of objects is useful for any general purpose intelligent agent. In this paper, we investigate a fundamental mechanism making object perception possible, namely the identification of spatio-temporally invariant structures in the sensorimotor experience of an agent. We take inspiration from the Sensorimotor Contingencies Theory to define a computational model of this mechanism through a sensorimotor, unsupervised and predictive approach. Our model is based on processing the unsupervised interaction of an artificial agent with its environment. We show how spatio-temporally invariant structures in the environment induce regularities in the sensorimotor experience of an agent, and how this agent, while building a predictive model of its sensorimotor experience, can capture them as densely connected subgraphs in a graph of sensory states connected by motor commands. Our approach is focused on elementary mechanisms, and is illustrated with a set of simple experiments in which an agent interacts with an environment. We show how the agent can build an internal model of moving but spatio-temporally invariant structures by performing a Spectral Clustering of the graph modeling its overall sensorimotor experiences. We systematically examine properties of the model, shedding light more globally on the specificities of the paradigm with respect to methods based on the supervised processing of collections of static images. 

Title: Connecting Touch and Vision via Cross-Modal Prediction
Abstract:  Humans perceive the world using multi-modal sensory inputs such as vision, audition, and touch. In this work, we investigate the cross-modal connection between vision and touch. The main challenge in this cross-domain modeling task lies in the significant scale discrepancy between the two: while our eyes perceive an entire visual scene at once, humans can only feel a small region of an object at any given moment. To connect vision and touch, we introduce new tasks of synthesizing plausible tactile signals from visual inputs as well as imagining how we interact with objects given tactile data as input. To accomplish our goals, we first equip robots with both visual and tactile sensors and collect a large-scale dataset of corresponding vision and tactile image sequences. To close the scale gap, we present a new conditional adversarial model that incorporates the scale and location information of the touch. Human perceptual studies demonstrate that our model can produce realistic visual images from tactile data and vice versa. Finally, we present both qualitative and quantitative experimental results regarding different system designs, as well as visualizing the learned representations of our model. 

Title: Learning from Demonstration with Weakly Supervised Disentanglement
Abstract:  Robotic manipulation tasks, such as wiping with a soft sponge, require control from multiple rich sensory modalities. Human-robot interaction, aimed at teaching robots, is difficult in this setting as there is potential for mismatch between human and machine comprehension of the rich data streams. We treat the task of interpretable learning from demonstration as an optimisation problem over a probabilistic generative model. To account for the high-dimensionality of the data, a high-capacity neural network is chosen to represent the model. The latent variables in this model are explicitly aligned with high-level notions and concepts that are manifested in a set of demonstrations. We show that such alignment is best achieved through the use of labels from the end user, in an appropriately restricted vocabulary, in contrast to the conventional approach of the designer picking a prior over the latent variables. Our approach is evaluated in the context of a table-top robot manipulation task performed by a PR2 robot -- that of dabbing liquids with a sponge (forcefully pressing a sponge and moving it along a surface). The robot provides visual information, arm joint positions and arm joint efforts. We have made videos of the task and data available - see supplementary materials at https://sites.google.com/view/weak-label-lfd 

Title: From Crystallized Adaptivity to Fluid Adaptivity in Deep Reinforcement Learning -- Insights from Biological Systems on Adaptive Flexibility
Abstract:  Recent developments in machine-learning algorithms have led to impressive performance increases in many traditional application scenarios of artificial intelligence research. In the area of deep reinforcement learning, deep learning functional architectures are combined with incremental learning schemes for sequential tasks that include interaction-based, but often delayed feedback. Despite their impressive successes, modern machine-learning approaches, including deep reinforcement learning, still perform weakly when compared to flexibly adaptive biological systems in certain naturally occurring scenarios. Such scenarios include transfers to environments different than the ones in which the training took place or environments that dynamically change, both of which are often mastered by biological systems through a capability that we here term "fluid adaptivity" to contrast it from the much slower adaptivity ("crystallized adaptivity") of the prior learning from which the behavior emerged. In this article, we derive and discuss research strategies, based on analyzes of fluid adaptivity in biological systems and its neuronal modeling, that might aid in equipping future artificially intelligent systems with capabilities of fluid adaptivity more similar to those seen in some biologically intelligent systems. A key component of this research strategy is the dynamization of the problem space itself and the implementation of this dynamization by suitably designed flexibly interacting modules. 

Title: Learning End-to-end Multimodal Sensor Policies for Autonomous Navigation
Abstract:  Multisensory polices are known to enhance both state estimation and target tracking. However, in the space of end-to-end sensorimotor control, this multi-sensor outlook has received limited attention. Moreover, systematic ways to make policies robust to partial sensor failure are not well explored. In this work, we propose a specific customization of Dropout, called \textit{Sensor Dropout}, to improve multisensory policy robustness and handle partial failure in the sensor-set. We also introduce an additional auxiliary loss on the policy network in order to reduce variance in the band of potential multi- and uni-sensory policies to reduce jerks during policy switching triggered by an abrupt sensor failure or deactivation/activation. Finally, through the visualization of gradients, we show that the learned policies are conditioned on the same latent states representation despite having diverse observations spaces - a hallmark of true sensor-fusion. Simulation results of the multisensory policy, as visualized in TORCS racing game, can be seen here: https://youtu.be/QAK2lcXjNZc. 

Title: Deep Neural Network Perception Models and Robust Autonomous Driving Systems
Abstract:  This paper analyzes the robustness of deep learning models in autonomous driving applications and discusses the practical solutions to address that. 

Title: Learning Object Bounding Boxes for 3D Instance Segmentation on Point Clouds
Abstract:  We propose a novel, conceptually simple and general framework for instance segmentation on 3D point clouds. Our method, called 3D-BoNet, follows the simple design philosophy of per-point multilayer perceptrons (MLPs). The framework directly regresses 3D bounding boxes for all instances in a point cloud, while simultaneously predicting a point-level mask for each instance. It consists of a backbone network followed by two parallel network branches for 1) bounding box regression and 2) point mask prediction. 3D-BoNet is single-stage, anchor-free and end-to-end trainable. Moreover, it is remarkably computationally efficient as, unlike existing approaches, it does not require any post-processing steps such as non-maximum suppression, feature sampling, clustering or voting. Extensive experiments show that our approach surpasses existing work on both ScanNet and S3DIS datasets while being approximately 10x more computationally efficient. Comprehensive ablation studies demonstrate the effectiveness of our design. 

Title: How to reduce computation time while sparing performance during robot navigation? A neuro-inspired architecture for autonomous shifting between model-based and model-free learning
Abstract:  Taking inspiration from how the brain coordinates multiple learning systems is an appealing strategy to endow robots with more flexibility. One of the expected advantages would be for robots to autonomously switch to the least costly system when its performance is satisfying. However, to our knowledge no study on a real robot has yet shown that the measured computational cost is reduced while performance is maintained with such brain-inspired algorithms. We present navigation experiments involving paths of different lengths to the goal, dead-end, and non-stationarity (i.e., change in goal location and apparition of obstacles). We present a novel arbitration mechanism between learning systems that explicitly measures performance and cost. We find that the robot can adapt to environment changes by switching between learning systems so as to maintain a high performance. Moreover, when the task is stable, the robot also autonomously shifts to the least costly system, which leads to a drastic reduction in computation cost while keeping a high performance. Overall, these results illustrates the interest of using multiple learning systems. 

Title: Radar-only ego-motion estimation in difficult settings via graph matching
Abstract:  Radar detects stable, long-range objects under variable weather and lighting conditions, making it a reliable and versatile sensor well suited for ego-motion estimation. In this work, we propose a radar-only odometry pipeline that is highly robust to radar artifacts (e.g., speckle noise and false positives) and requires only one input parameter. We demonstrate its ability to adapt across diverse settings, from urban UK to off-road Iceland, achieving a scan matching accuracy of approximately 5.20 cm and 0.0929 deg when using GPS as ground truth (compared to visual odometry's 5.77 cm and 0.1032 deg). We present algorithms for keypoint extraction and data association, framing the latter as a graph matching optimization problem, and provide an in-depth system analysis. 

Title: Scene Compliant Trajectory Forecast with Agent-Centric Spatio-Temporal Grids
Abstract:  Forecasting long-term human motion is a challenging task due to the non-linearity, multi-modality and inherent uncertainty in future trajectories. The underlying scene and past motion of agents can provide useful cues to predict their future motion. However, the heterogeneity of the two inputs poses a challenge for learning a joint representation of the scene and past trajectories. To address this challenge, we propose a model based on grid representations to forecast agent trajectories. We represent the past trajectories of agents using binary 2-D grids, and the underlying scene as a RGB birds-eye view (BEV) image, with an agent-centric frame of reference. We encode the scene and past trajectories using convolutional layers and generate trajectory forecasts using a Convolutional LSTM (ConvLSTM) decoder. Results on the publicly available Stanford Drone Dataset (SDD) show that our model outperforms prior approaches and outputs realistic future trajectories that comply with scene structure and past motion. 

Title: A Novel Method for the Extrinsic Calibration of a 2D Laser Rangefinder and a Camera
Abstract:  We present a novel method for extrinsically calibrating a camera and a 2D Laser Rangefinder (LRF) whose beams are invisible from the camera image. We show that point-to-plane constraints from a single observation of a V-shaped calibration pattern composed of two non-coplanar triangles suffice to uniquely constrain the relative pose between two sensors. Next, we present an approach to obtain analytical solutions using point-to-plane constraints from single or multiple observations. Along the way, we also show that previous solutions, in contrast to our method, have inherent ambiguities and therefore must rely on a good initial estimate. Real and synthetic experiments validate our method and show that it achieves better accuracy than previous methods. 

Title: Synchronizing Probability Measures on Rotations via Optimal Transport
Abstract:  We introduce a new paradigm, $\textit{measure synchronization}$, for synchronizing graphs with measure-valued edges. We formulate this problem as maximization of the cycle-consistency in the space of probability measures over relative rotations. In particular, we aim at estimating marginal distributions of absolute orientations by synchronizing the $\textit{conditional}$ ones, which are defined on the Riemannian manifold of quaternions. Such graph optimization on distributions-on-manifolds enables a natural treatment of multimodal hypotheses, ambiguities and uncertainties arising in many computer vision applications such as SLAM, SfM, and object pose estimation. We first formally define the problem as a generalization of the classical rotation graph synchronization, where in our case the vertices denote probability measures over rotations. We then measure the quality of the synchronization by using Sinkhorn divergences, which reduces to other popular metrics such as Wasserstein distance or the maximum mean discrepancy as limit cases. We propose a nonparametric Riemannian particle optimization approach to solve the problem. Even though the problem is non-convex, by drawing a connection to the recently proposed sparse optimization methods, we show that the proposed algorithm converges to the global optimum in a special case of the problem under certain conditions. Our qualitative and quantitative experiments show the validity of our approach and we bring in new perspectives to the study of synchronization. 

Title: Learning to Map Natural Language Instructions to Physical Quadcopter Control using Simulated Flight
Abstract:  We propose a joint simulation and real-world learning framework for mapping navigation instructions and raw first-person observations to continuous control. Our model estimates the need for environment exploration, predicts the likelihood of visiting environment positions during execution, and controls the agent to both explore and visit high-likelihood positions. We introduce Supervised Reinforcement Asynchronous Learning (SuReAL). Learning uses both simulation and real environments without requiring autonomous flight in the physical environment during training, and combines supervised learning for predicting positions to visit and reinforcement learning for continuous control. We evaluate our approach on a natural language instruction-following task with a physical quadcopter, and demonstrate effective execution and exploration behavior. 

Title: Self Training Autonomous Driving Agent
Abstract:  Intrinsically, driving is a Markov Decision Process which suits well the reinforcement learning paradigm. In this paper, we propose a novel agent which learns to drive a vehicle without any human assistance. We use the concept of reinforcement learning and evolutionary strategies to train our agent in a 2D simulation environment. Our model's architecture goes beyond the World Model's by introducing difference images in the auto encoder. This novel involvement of difference images in the auto-encoder gives better representation of the latent space with respect to the motion of vehicle and helps an autonomous agent to learn more efficiently how to drive a vehicle. Results show that our method requires fewer (96% less) total agents, (87.5% less) agents per generations, (70% less) generations and (90% less) rollouts than the original architecture while achieving the same accuracy of the original. 

Title: Federated Transfer Reinforcement Learning for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning (RL) is widely used in autonomous driving tasks and training RL models typically involves in a multi-step process: pre-training RL models on simulators, uploading the pre-trained model to real-life robots, and fine-tuning the weight parameters on robot vehicles. This sequential process is extremely time-consuming and more importantly, knowledge from the fine-tuned model stays local and can not be re-used or leveraged collaboratively. To tackle this problem, we present an online federated RL transfer process for real-time knowledge extraction where all the participant agents make corresponding actions with the knowledge learned by others, even when they are acting in very different environments. To validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach, we constructed a real-life collision avoidance system with Microsoft Airsim simulator and NVIDIA JetsonTX2 car agents, which cooperatively learn from scratch to avoid collisions in indoor environment with obstacle objects. We demonstrate that with the proposed framework, the simulator car agents can transfer knowledge to the RC cars in real-time, with 27% increase in the average distance with obstacles and 42% decrease in the collision counts. 

Title: Learning Constraints from Locally-Optimal Demonstrations under Cost Function Uncertainty
Abstract:  We present an algorithm for learning parametric constraints from locally-optimal demonstrations, where the cost function being optimized is uncertain to the learner. Our method uses the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) optimality conditions of the demonstrations within a mixed integer linear program (MILP) to learn constraints which are consistent with the local optimality of the demonstrations, by either using a known constraint parameterization or by incrementally growing a parameterization that is consistent with the demonstrations. We provide theoretical guarantees on the conservativeness of the recovered safe/unsafe sets and analyze the limits of constraint learnability when using locally-optimal demonstrations. We evaluate our method on high-dimensional constraints and systems by learning constraints for 7-DOF arm and quadrotor examples, show that it outperforms competing constraint-learning approaches, and can be effectively used to plan new constraint-satisfying trajectories in the environment. 

Title: An Efficient UAV-based Artificial Intelligence Framework for Real-Time Visual Tasks
Abstract:  Modern Unmanned Aerial Vehicles equipped with state of the art artificial intelligence (AI) technologies are opening to a wide plethora of novel and interesting applications. While this field received a strong impact from the recent AI breakthroughs, most of the provided solutions either entirely rely on commercial software or provide a weak integration interface which denies the development of additional techniques. This leads us to propose a novel and efficient framework for the UAV-AI joint technology. Intelligent UAV systems encounter complex challenges to be tackled without human control. One of these complex challenges is to be able to carry out computer vision tasks in real-time use cases. In this paper we focus on this challenge and introduce a multi-layer AI (MLAI) framework to allow easy integration of ad-hoc visual-based AI applications. To show its features and its advantages, we implemented and evaluated different modern visual-based deep learning models for object detection, target tracking and target handover. 

Title: Multimodal Uncertainty Reduction for Intention Recognition in Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract:  Assistive robots can potentially improve the quality of life and personal independence of elderly people by supporting everyday life activities. To guarantee a safe and intuitive interaction between human and robot, human intentions need to be recognized automatically. As humans communicate their intentions multimodally, the use of multiple modalities for intention recognition may not just increase the robustness against failure of individual modalities but especially reduce the uncertainty about the intention to be predicted. This is desirable as particularly in direct interaction between robots and potentially vulnerable humans a minimal uncertainty about the situation as well as knowledge about this actual uncertainty is necessary. Thus, in contrast to existing methods, in this work a new approach for multimodal intention recognition is introduced that focuses on uncertainty reduction through classifier fusion. For the four considered modalities speech, gestures, gaze directions and scene objects individual intention classifiers are trained, all of which output a probability distribution over all possible intentions. By combining these output distributions using the Bayesian method Independent Opinion Pool the uncertainty about the intention to be recognized can be decreased. The approach is evaluated in a collaborative human-robot interaction task with a 7-DoF robot arm. The results show that fused classifiers which combine multiple modalities outperform the respective individual base classifiers with respect to increased accuracy, robustness, and reduced uncertainty. 

Title: Unsupervised Learning and Exploration of Reachable Outcome Space
Abstract:  Performing Reinforcement Learning in sparse rewards settings, with very little prior knowledge, is a challenging problem since there is no signal to properly guide the learning process. In such situations, a good search strategy is fundamental. At the same time, not having to adapt the algorithm to every single problem is very desirable. Here we introduce TAXONS, a Task Agnostic eXploration of Outcome spaces through Novelty and Surprise algorithm. Based on a population-based divergent-search approach, it learns a set of diverse policies directly from high-dimensional observations, without any task-specific information. TAXONS builds a repertoire of policies while training an autoencoder on the high-dimensional observation of the final state of the system to build a low-dimensional outcome space. The learned outcome space, combined with the reconstruction error, is used to drive the search for new policies. Results show that TAXONS can find a diverse set of controllers, covering a good part of the ground-truth outcome space, while having no information about such space. 

Title: Implicit Latent Variable Model for Scene-Consistent Motion Forecasting
Abstract:  In order to plan a safe maneuver an autonomous vehicle must accurately perceive its environment, and understand the interactions among traffic participants. In this paper, we aim to learn scene-consistent motion forecasts of complex urban traffic directly from sensor data. In particular, we propose to characterize the joint distribution over future trajectories via an implicit latent variable model. We model the scene as an interaction graph and employ powerful graph neural networks to learn a distributed latent representation of the scene. Coupled with a deterministic decoder, we obtain trajectory samples that are consistent across traffic participants, achieving state-of-the-art results in motion forecasting and interaction understanding. Last but not least, we demonstrate that our motion forecasts result in safer and more comfortable motion planning. 

Title: Smart Cloud: Scalable Cloud Robotic Architecture for Web-powered Multi-Robot Applications
Abstract:  Robots have inherently limited onboard processing, storage, and power capabilities. Cloud computing resources have the potential to provide significant advantages for robots in many applications. However, to make use of these resources, frameworks must be developed that facilitate robot interactions with cloud services. In this paper, we propose a cloud-based architecture called Smart Cloud that intends to overcome the physical limitations of single- or multi-robot systems through massively parallel computation, provided on demand by cloud services. Smart Cloud is implemented on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and available for robots running on the Robot Operating System (ROS) and on non-ROS systems. Smart Cloud features a first-of-its-kind architecture that incorporates JavaScript-based libraries to run various robotic applications related to machine learning and other methods. This paper presents the architecture and its performance in terms of CPU power usage, latency, and security, and finally validates it for navigation and machine learning applications. 

Title: SLAM-based Integrity Monitoring Using GPS and Fish-eye Camera
Abstract:  Urban navigation using GPS and fish-eye camera suffers from multipath effects in GPS measurements and data association errors in pixel intensities across image frames. We propose a Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM)-based Integrity Monitoring (IM) algorithm to compute the position protection levels while accounting for multiple faults in both GPS and vision. We perform graph optimization using the sequential data of GPS pseudoranges, pixel intensities, vehicle dynamics, and satellite ephemeris to simultaneously localize the vehicle as well as the landmarks, namely GPS satellites and key image pixels in the world frame. We estimate the fault mode vector by analyzing the temporal correlation across the GPS measurement residuals and spatial correlation across the vision intensity residuals. In particular, to detect and isolate the vision faults, we developed a superpixel-based piecewise Random Sample Consensus (RANSAC) technique to perform spatial voting across image pixels. For an estimated fault mode, we compute the protection levels by applying worst-case failure slope analysis to the linearized Graph-SLAM framework. We perform ground vehicle experiments in the semi-urban area of Champaign, IL and have demonstrated the successful detection and isolation of multiple faults. We also validate tighter protection levels and lower localization errors achieved via the proposed algorithm as compared to SLAM-based IM that utilizes only GPS measurements. 

Title: Look Before You Leap: Bridging Model-Free and Model-Based Reinforcement Learning for Planned-Ahead Vision-and-Language Navigation
Abstract:  Existing research studies on vision and language grounding for robot navigation focus on improving model-free deep reinforcement learning (DRL) models in synthetic environments. However, model-free DRL models do not consider the dynamics in the real-world environments, and they often fail to generalize to new scenes. In this paper, we take a radical approach to bridge the gap between synthetic studies and real-world practices---We propose a novel, planned-ahead hybrid reinforcement learning model that combines model-free and model-based reinforcement learning to solve a real-world vision-language navigation task. Our look-ahead module tightly integrates a look-ahead policy model with an environment model that predicts the next state and the reward. Experimental results suggest that our proposed method significantly outperforms the baselines and achieves the best on the real-world Room-to-Room dataset. Moreover, our scalable method is more generalizable when transferring to unseen environments. 

Title: Robust Rigid Point Registration based on Convolution of Adaptive Gaussian Mixture Models
Abstract:  Matching 3D rigid point clouds in complex environments robustly and accurately is still a core technique used in many applications. This paper proposes a new architecture combining error estimation from sample covariances and dual global probability alignment based on the convolution of adaptive Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM) from point clouds. Firstly, a novel adaptive GMM is defined using probability distributions from the corresponding points. Then rigid point cloud alignment is performed by maximizing the global probability from the convolution of dual adaptive GMMs in the whole 2D or 3D space, which can be efficiently optimized and has a large zone of accurate convergence. Thousands of trials have been conducted on 200 models from public 2D and 3D datasets to demonstrate superior robustness and accuracy in complex environments with unpredictable noise, outliers, occlusion, initial rotation, shape and missing points. 

Title: A Maximum Likelihood Approach to Extract Finite Planes from 3-D Laser Scans
Abstract:  Whether it is object detection, model reconstruction, laser odometry, or point cloud registration: Plane extraction is a vital component of many robotic systems. In this paper, we propose a strictly probabilistic method to detect finite planes in organized 3-D laser range scans. An agglomerative hierarchical clustering technique, our algorithm builds planes from bottom up, always extending a plane by the point that decreases the measurement likelihood of the scan the least. In contrast to most related methods, which rely on heuristics like orthogonal point-to-plane distance, we leverage the ray path information to compute the measurement likelihood. We evaluate our approach not only on the popular SegComp benchmark, but also provide a challenging synthetic dataset that overcomes SegComp's deficiencies. Both our implementation and the suggested dataset are available at www.github.com/acschaefer/ppe. 

Title: End-to-end Recurrent Multi-Object Tracking and Trajectory Prediction with Relational Reasoning
Abstract:  The majority of contemporary object-tracking approaches do not model interactions between objects. This contrasts with the fact that objects' paths are not independent: a cyclist might abruptly deviate from a previously planned trajectory in order to avoid colliding with a car. Building upon HART, a neural class-agnostic single-object tracker, we introduce a multi-object tracking method MOHART capable of relational reasoning. Importantly, the entire system, including the understanding of interactions and relations between objects, is class-agnostic and learned simultaneously in an end-to-end fashion. We explore a number of relational reasoning architectures and show that multi-headed self-attention outperforms the provided baselines and better accounts for complex physical interactions in a challenging toy experiment. We find that it leads to consistent performance gains in tracking as well as future trajectory prediction on three real-world datasets (MOTChallenge, UA-DETRAC, and Stanford Drone dataset), particularly in the presence of ego-motion, occlusions, crowded scenes, and faulty sensor inputs. 

Title: The Trajectron: Probabilistic Multi-Agent Trajectory Modeling With Dynamic Spatiotemporal Graphs
Abstract:  Developing safe human-robot interaction systems is a necessary step towards the widespread integration of autonomous agents in society. A key component of such systems is the ability to reason about the many potential futures (e.g. trajectories) of other agents in the scene. Towards this end, we present the Trajectron, a graph-structured model that predicts many potential future trajectories of multiple agents simultaneously in both highly dynamic and multimodal scenarios (i.e. where the number of agents in the scene is time-varying and there are many possible highly-distinct futures for each agent). It combines tools from recurrent sequence modeling and variational deep generative modeling to produce a distribution of future trajectories for each agent in a scene. We demonstrate the performance of our model on several datasets, obtaining state-of-the-art results on standard trajectory prediction metrics as well as introducing a new metric for comparing models that output distributions. 

Title: Distributed Multi-view Matching in Networks with Limited Communications
Abstract:  We address the problem of distributed matching of features in networks with vision systems. Every camera in the network has limited communication capabilities and can only exchange local matches with its neighbors. We propose a distributed algorithm that takes these local matches and computes global correspondences by a proper propagation in the network. When the algorithm finishes, each camera knows the global correspondences between its features and the features of all the cameras in the network. The presence of spurious introduced by the local matcher may produce inconsistent global correspondences, which are association paths between features from the same camera. The contributions of this work are the propagation of the local matches and the detection and resolution of these inconsistencies by deleting local matches. Our resolution algorithm considers the quality of each local match, when this information is provided by the local matcher. We formally prove that after executing the algorithm, the network finishes with a global data association free of inconsistencies. We provide a fully decentralized solution to the problem which does not rely on any particular communication topology. Simulations and experimental results with real images show the performance of the method considering different features, matching functions and scenarios. 

Title: Point Set Voting for Partial Point Cloud Analysis
Abstract:  The continual improvement of 3D sensors has driven the development of algorithms to perform point cloud analysis. In fact, techniques for point cloud classification and segmentation have in recent years achieved incredible performance driven in part by leveraging large synthetic datasets. Unfortunately these same state-of-the-art approaches perform poorly when applied to incomplete point clouds. This limitation of existing algorithms is particularly concerning since point clouds generated by 3D sensors in the real world are usually incomplete due to perspective view or occlusion by other objects. This paper proposes a general model for partial point clouds analysis wherein the latent feature encoding a complete point clouds is inferred by applying a local point set voting strategy. In particular, each local point set constructs a vote that corresponds to a distribution in the latent space, and the optimal latent feature is the one with the highest probability. This approach ensures that any subsequent point cloud analysis is robust to partial observation while simultaneously guaranteeing that the proposed model is able to output multiple possible results. This paper illustrates that this proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performance on shape classification, part segmentation and point cloud completion. 

Title: Short-Term Prediction and Multi-Camera Fusion on Semantic Grids
Abstract:  An environment representation (ER) is a substantial part of every autonomous system. It introduces a common interface between perception and other system components, such as decision making, and allows downstream algorithms to deal with abstracted data without knowledge of the used sensor. In this work, we propose and evaluate a novel architecture that generates an egocentric, grid-based, predictive, and semantically-interpretable ER. In particular, we provide a proof of concept for the spatio-temporal fusion of multiple camera sequences and short-term prediction in such an ER. Our design utilizes a strong semantic segmentation network together with depth and egomotion estimates to first extract semantic information from multiple camera streams and then transform these separately into egocentric temporally-aligned bird's-eye view grids. A deep encoder-decoder network is trained to fuse a stack of these grids into a unified semantic grid representation and to predict the dynamics of its surrounding. We evaluate this representation on real-world sequences of the Cityscapes dataset and show that our architecture can make accurate predictions in complex sensor fusion scenarios and significantly outperforms a model-driven baseline in a category-based evaluation. 

Title: Object-oriented SLAM using Quadrics and Symmetry Properties for Indoor Environments
Abstract:  Aiming at the application environment of indoor mobile robots, this paper proposes a sparse object-level SLAM algorithm based on an RGB-D camera. A quadric representation is used as a landmark to compactly model objects, including their position, orientation, and occupied space. The state-of-art quadric-based SLAM algorithm faces the observability problem caused by the limited perspective under the plane trajectory of the mobile robot. To solve the problem, the proposed algorithm fuses both object detection and point cloud data to estimate the quadric parameters. It finishes the quadric initialization based on a single frame of RGB-D data, which significantly reduces the requirements for perspective changes. As objects are often observed locally, the proposed algorithm uses the symmetrical properties of indoor artificial objects to estimate the occluded parts to obtain more accurate quadric parameters. Experiments have shown that compared with the state-of-art algorithm, especially on the forward trajectory of mobile robots, the proposed algorithm significantly improves the accuracy and convergence speed of quadric reconstruction. Finally, we made available an opensource implementation to replicate the experiments. 

Title: Learning to Correct 3D Reconstructions from Multiple Views
Abstract:  This paper is about reducing the cost of building good large-scale 3D reconstructions post-hoc. We render 2D views of an existing reconstruction and train a convolutional neural network (CNN) that refines inverse-depth to match a higher-quality reconstruction. Since the views that we correct are rendered from the same reconstruction, they share the same geometry, so overlapping views complement each other. We take advantage of that in two ways. Firstly, we impose a loss during training which guides predictions on neighbouring views to have the same geometry and has been shown to improve performance. Secondly, in contrast to previous work, which corrects each view independently, we also make predictions on sets of neighbouring views jointly. This is achieved by warping feature maps between views and thus bypassing memory-intensive 3D computation. We make the observation that features in the feature maps are viewpoint-dependent, and propose a method for transforming features with dynamic filters generated by a multi-layer perceptron from the relative poses between views. In our experiments we show that this last step is necessary for successfully fusing feature maps between views. 

Title: ThreeDWorld: A Platform for Interactive Multi-Modal Physical Simulation
Abstract:  We introduce ThreeDWorld (TDW), a platform for interactive multi-modal physical simulation. With TDW, users can simulate high-fidelity sensory data and physical interactions between mobile agents and objects in a wide variety of rich 3D environments. TDW has several unique properties: 1) realtime near photo-realistic image rendering quality; 2) a library of objects and environments with materials for high-quality rendering, and routines enabling user customization of the asset library; 3) generative procedures for efficiently building classes of new environments 4) high-fidelity audio rendering; 5) believable and realistic physical interactions for a wide variety of material types, including cloths, liquid, and deformable objects; 6) a range of "avatar" types that serve as embodiments of AI agents, with the option for user avatar customization; and 7) support for human interactions with VR devices. TDW also provides a rich API enabling multiple agents to interact within a simulation and return a range of sensor and physics data representing the state of the world. We present initial experiments enabled by the platform around emerging research directions in computer vision, machine learning, and cognitive science, including multi-modal physical scene understanding, multi-agent interactions, models that "learn like a child", and attention studies in humans and neural networks. The simulation platform will be made publicly available. 

Title: AgriColMap: Aerial-Ground Collaborative 3D Mapping for Precision Farming
Abstract:  The combination of aerial survey capabilities of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles with targeted intervention abilities of agricultural Unmanned Ground Vehicles can significantly improve the effectiveness of robotic systems applied to precision agriculture. In this context, building and updating a common map of the field is an essential but challenging task. The maps built using robots of different types show differences in size, resolution and scale, the associated geolocation data may be inaccurate and biased, while the repetitiveness of both visual appearance and geometric structures found within agricultural contexts render classical map merging techniques ineffective. In this paper we propose AgriColMap, a novel map registration pipeline that leverages a grid-based multimodal environment representation which includes a vegetation index map and a Digital Surface Model. We cast the data association problem between maps built from UAVs and UGVs as a multimodal, large displacement dense optical flow estimation. The dominant, coherent flows, selected using a voting scheme, are used as point-to-point correspondences to infer a preliminary non-rigid alignment between the maps. A final refinement is then performed, by exploiting only meaningful parts of the registered maps. We evaluate our system using real world data for 3 fields with different crop species. The results show that our method outperforms several state of the art map registration and matching techniques by a large margin, and has a higher tolerance to large initial misalignments. We release an implementation of the proposed approach along with the acquired datasets with this paper. 

Title: Feature Expansive Reward Learning: Rethinking Human Input
Abstract:  In collaborative human-robot scenarios, when a person is not satisfied with how a robot performs a task, they can intervene to correct it. Reward learning methods enable the robot to adapt its reward function online based on such human input. However, this online adaptation requires low sample complexity algorithms which rely on simple functions of handcrafted features. In practice, pre-specifying an exhaustive set of features the person might care about is impossible; what should the robot do when the human correction cannot be explained by the features it already has access to? Recent progress in deep Inverse Reinforcement Learning (IRL) suggests that the robot could fall back on demonstrations: ask the human for demonstrations of the task, and recover a reward defined over not just the known features, but also the raw state space. Our insight is that rather than implicitly learning about the missing feature(s) from task demonstrations, the robot should instead ask for data that explicitly teaches it about what it is missing. We introduce a new type of human input, in which the person guides the robot from areas of the state space where the feature she is teaching is highly expressed to states where it is not. We propose an algorithm for learning the feature from the raw state space and integrating it into the reward function. By focusing the human input on the missing feature, our method decreases sample complexity and improves generalization of the learned reward over the above deep IRL baseline. We show this in experiments with a 7DOF robot manipulator. Finally, we discuss our method's potential implications for deep reward learning more broadly: taking a divide-and-conquer approach that focuses on important features separately before learning from demonstrations can improve generalization in tasks where such features are easy for the human to teach. 

Title: Tractable Reinforcement Learning of Signal Temporal Logic Objectives
Abstract:  Signal temporal logic (STL) is an expressive language to specify time-bound real-world robotic tasks and safety specifications. Recently, there has been an interest in learning optimal policies to satisfy STL specifications via reinforcement learning (RL). Learning to satisfy STL specifications often needs a sufficient length of state history to compute reward and the next action. The need for history results in exponential state-space growth for the learning problem. Thus the learning problem becomes computationally intractable for most real-world applications. In this paper, we propose a compact means to capture state history in a new augmented state-space representation. An approximation to the objective (maximizing probability of satisfaction) is proposed and solved for in the new augmented state-space. We show the performance bound of the approximate solution and compare it with the solution of an existing technique via simulations. 

Title: Real-time 3-D Mapping with Estimating Acoustic Materials
Abstract:  This paper proposes a real-time system integrating an acoustic material estimation from visual appearance and an on-the-fly mapping in the 3-dimension. The proposed method estimates the acoustic materials of surroundings in indoor scenes and incorporates them to a 3-D occupancy map, as a robot moves around the environment. To estimate the acoustic material from the visual cue, we apply the state-of-the-art semantic segmentation CNN network based on the assumption that the visual appearance and the acoustic materials have a strong association. Furthermore, we introduce an update policy to handle the material estimations during the online mapping process. As a result, our environment map with acoustic material can be used for sound-related robotics applications, such as sound source localization taking into account various acoustic propagation (e.g., reflection). 

Title: Learning Pose Estimation for High-Precision Robotic Assembly Using Simulated Depth Images
Abstract:  Most of industrial robotic assembly tasks today require fixed initial conditions for successful assembly. These constraints induce high production costs and low adaptability to new tasks. In this work we aim towards flexible and adaptable robotic assembly by using 3D CAD models for all parts to be assembled. We focus on a generic assembly task - the Siemens Innovation Challenge - in which a robot needs to assemble a gear-like mechanism with high precision into an operating system. To obtain the millimeter-accuracy required for this task and industrial settings alike, we use a depth camera mounted near the robot end-effector. We present a high-accuracy two-stage pose estimation procedure based on deep convolutional neural networks, which includes detection, pose estimation, refinement, and handling of near- and full symmetries of parts. The networks are trained on simulated depth images with means to ensure successful transfer to the real robot. We obtain an average pose estimation error of 2.16 millimeters and 0.64 degree leading to 91% success rate for robotic assembly of randomly distributed parts. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that the Siemens Innovation Challenge is fully addressed, with all the parts assembled with high success rates. 

Title: Segmentation of Surgical Instruments for Minimally-Invasive Robot-Assisted Procedures Using Generative Deep Neural Networks
Abstract:  This work proves that semantic segmentation on minimally invasive surgical instruments can be improved by using training data that has been augmented through domain adaptation. The benefit of this method is twofold. Firstly, it suppresses the need of manually labeling thousands of images by transforming synthetic data into realistic-looking data. To achieve this, a CycleGAN model is used, which transforms a source dataset to approximate the domain distribution of a target dataset. Secondly, this newly generated data with perfect labels is utilized to train a semantic segmentation neural network, U-Net. This method shows generalization capabilities on data with variability regarding its rotation- position- and lighting conditions. Nevertheless, one of the caveats of this approach is that the model is unable to generalize well to other surgical instruments with a different shape from the one used for training. This is driven by the lack of a high variance in the geometric distribution of the training data. Future work will focus on making the model more scale-invariant and able to adapt to other types of surgical instruments previously unseen by the training. 

Title: Let's Get Dirty: GAN Based Data Augmentation for Soiling and Adverse Weather Classification in Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Cameras are getting more and more important in autonomous driving. Wide-angle fisheye cameras are relatively cheap sensors and very suitable for automated parking and low-speed navigation tasks. Four of such cameras form a surround-view system that provides a complete and detailed view around the vehicle. These cameras are usually directly exposed to harsh environmental settings and therefore can get soiled very easily by mud, dust, water, frost, etc. The soiling on the camera lens has a direct impact on the further processing of the images they provide. While adverse weather conditions, such as rain, are getting attention recently, there is limited work on lens soiling. We believe that one of the reasons is that it is difficult to build a diverse dataset for this task, which is moreover expensive to annotate. We propose a novel GAN based algorithm for generating artificial soiling data along with the corresponding annotation masks. The manually annotated soiling dataset and the generated augmentation dataset will be made public. We demonstrate the generalization of our fisheye trained soiling GAN model on the Cityscapes dataset. Additionally, we provide an empirical evaluation of the degradation of the semantic segmentation algorithm with the soiled data. 

Title: Bayesian Experience Reuse for Learning from Multiple Demonstrators
Abstract:  Learning from demonstrations (LfD) improves the exploration efficiency of a learning agent by incorporating demonstrations from experts. However, demonstration data can often come from multiple experts with conflicting goals, making it difficult to incorporate safely and effectively in online settings. We address this problem in the static and dynamic optimization settings by modelling the uncertainty in source and target task functions using normal-inverse-gamma priors, whose corresponding posteriors are, respectively, learned from demonstrations and target data using Bayesian neural networks with shared features. We use this learned belief to derive a quadratic programming problem whose solution yields a probability distribution over the expert models. Finally, we propose Bayesian Experience Reuse (BERS) to sample demonstrations in accordance with this distribution and reuse them directly in new tasks. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach for static optimization of smooth functions, and transfer learning in a high-dimensional supply chain problem with cost uncertainty. 

Title: Graph-Structured Visual Imitation
Abstract:  We cast visual imitation as a visual correspondence problem. Our robotic agent is rewarded when its actions result in better matching of relative spatial configurations for corresponding visual entities detected in its workspace and teacher's demonstration. We build upon recent advances in Computer Vision,such as human finger keypoint detectors, object detectors trained on-the-fly with synthetic augmentations, and point detectors supervised by viewpoint changes and learn multiple visual entity detectors for each demonstration without human annotations or robot interactions. We empirically show the proposed factorized visual representations of entities and their spatial arrangements drive successful imitation of a variety of manipulation skills within minutes, using a single demonstration and without any environment instrumentation. It is robust to background clutter and can effectively generalize across environment variations between demonstrator and imitator, greatly outperforming unstructured non-factorized full-frame CNN encodings of previous works. 

Title: Smoke Sky -- Exploring New Frontiers of Unmanned Aerial Systems for Wildland Fire Science and Applications
Abstract:  Wildfire has had increasing impacts on society as the climate changes and the wildland urban interface grows. As such, there is a demand for innovative solutions to help manage fire. Managing wildfire can include proactive fire management such as prescribed burning within constrained areas or advancements for reactive fire management (e.g., fire suppression). Because of the growing societal impact, the JPL BlueSky program sought to assess the current state of fire management and technology and determine areas with high return on investment. To accomplish this, we met with the national interagency Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Advisory Group (UASAG) and with leading technology transfer experts for fire science and management applications. We provide an overview of the current state as well as an analysis of the impact, maturity and feasibility of integrating different technologies that can be developed by JPL. Based on the findings, the highest return on investment technologies for fire management are first to develop single micro-aerial vehicle (MAV) autonomy, autonomous sensing over fire, and the associated data and information system for active fire local environment mapping. Once this is completed for a single MAV, expanding the work to include many in a swarm would require further investment of distributed MAV autonomy and MAV swarm mechanics, but could greatly expand the breadth of application over large fires. Important to investing in these technologies will be in developing collaborations with the key influencers and champions for using UAS technology in fire management. 

Title: Translating Natural Language Instructions for Behavioral Robot Navigation with a Multi-Head Attention Mechanism
Abstract:  We propose a multi-head attention mechanism as a blending layer in a neural network model that translates natural language to a high level behavioral language for indoor robot navigation. We follow the framework established by (Zang et al., 2018a) that proposes the use of a navigation graph as a knowledge base for the task. Our results show significant performance gains when translating instructions on previously unseen environments, therefore, improving the generalization capabilities of the model. 

Title: HRL4IN: Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning for Interactive Navigation with Mobile Manipulators
Abstract:  Most common navigation tasks in human environments require auxiliary arm interactions, e.g. opening doors, pressing buttons and pushing obstacles away. This type of navigation tasks, which we call Interactive Navigation, requires the use of mobile manipulators: mobile bases with manipulation capabilities. Interactive Navigation tasks are usually long-horizon and composed of heterogeneous phases of pure navigation, pure manipulation, and their combination. Using the wrong part of the embodiment is inefficient and hinders progress. We propose HRL4IN, a novel Hierarchical RL architecture for Interactive Navigation tasks. HRL4IN exploits the exploration benefits of HRL over flat RL for long-horizon tasks thanks to temporally extended commitments towards subgoals. Different from other HRL solutions, HRL4IN handles the heterogeneous nature of the Interactive Navigation task by creating subgoals in different spaces in different phases of the task. Moreover, HRL4IN selects different parts of the embodiment to use for each phase, improving energy efficiency. We evaluate HRL4IN against flat PPO and HAC, a state-of-the-art HRL algorithm, on Interactive Navigation in two environments - a 2D grid-world environment and a 3D environment with physics simulation. We show that HRL4IN significantly outperforms its baselines in terms of task performance and energy efficiency. More information is available at https://sites.google.com/view/hrl4in. 

Title: Reinforcement Learning with Chromatic Networks for Compact Architecture Search
Abstract:  We present a neural architecture search algorithm to construct compact reinforcement learning (RL) policies, by combining ENAS and ES in a highly scalable and intuitive way. By defining the combinatorial search space of NAS to be the set of different edge-partitionings (colorings) into same-weight classes, we represent compact architectures via efficient learned edge-partitionings. For several RL tasks, we manage to learn colorings translating to effective policies parameterized by as few as $17$ weight parameters, providing >90% compression over vanilla policies and 6x compression over state-of-the-art compact policies based on Toeplitz matrices, while still maintaining good reward. We believe that our work is one of the first attempts to propose a rigorous approach to training structured neural network architectures for RL problems that are of interest especially in mobile robotics with limited storage and computational resources. 

Title: Assisted Perception: Optimizing Observations to Communicate State
Abstract:  We aim to help users estimate the state of the world in tasks like robotic teleoperation and navigation with visual impairments, where users may have systematic biases that lead to suboptimal behavior: they might struggle to process observations from multiple sensors simultaneously, receive delayed observations, or overestimate distances to obstacles. While we cannot directly change the user's internal beliefs or their internal state estimation process, our insight is that we can still assist them by modifying the user's observations. Instead of showing the user their true observations, we synthesize new observations that lead to more accurate internal state estimates when processed by the user. We refer to this method as assistive state estimation (ASE): an automated assistant uses the true observations to infer the state of the world, then generates a modified observation for the user to consume (e.g., through an augmented reality interface), and optimizes the modification to induce the user's new beliefs to match the assistant's current beliefs. We evaluate ASE in a user study with 12 participants who each perform four tasks: two tasks with known user biases -- bandwidth-limited image classification and a driving video game with observation delay -- and two with unknown biases that our method has to learn -- guided 2D navigation and a lunar lander teleoperation video game. A different assistance strategy emerges in each domain, such as quickly revealing informative pixels to speed up image classification, using a dynamics model to undo observation delay in driving, identifying nearby landmarks for navigation, and exaggerating a visual indicator of tilt in the lander game. The results show that ASE substantially improves the task performance of users with bandwidth constraints, observation delay, and other unknown biases. 

Title: Deep Neural Networks for Improved, Impromptu Trajectory Tracking of Quadrotors
Abstract:  Trajectory tracking control for quadrotors is important for applications ranging from surveying and inspection, to film making. However, designing and tuning classical controllers, such as proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controllers, to achieve high tracking precision can be time-consuming and difficult, due to hidden dynamics and other non-idealities. The Deep Neural Network (DNN), with its superior capability of approximating abstract, nonlinear functions, proposes a novel approach for enhancing trajectory tracking control. This paper presents a DNN-based algorithm as an add-on module that improves the tracking performance of a classical feedback controller. Given a desired trajectory, the DNNs provide a tailored reference input to the controller based on their gained experience. The input aims to achieve a unity map between the desired and the output trajectory. The motivation for this work is an interactive "fly-as-you-draw" application, in which a user draws a trajectory on a mobile device, and a quadrotor instantly flies that trajectory with the DNN-enhanced control system. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed approach improves the tracking precision for user-drawn trajectories after the DNNs are trained on selected periodic trajectories, suggesting the method's potential in real-world applications. Tracking errors are reduced by around 40-50% for both training and testing trajectories from users, highlighting the DNNs' capability of generalizing knowledge. 

Title: End-to-End Velocity Estimation For Autonomous Racing
Abstract:  Velocity estimation plays a central role in driverless vehicles, but standard and affordable methods struggle to cope with extreme scenarios like aggressive maneuvers due to the presence of high sideslip. To solve this, autonomous race cars are usually equipped with expensive external velocity sensors. In this paper, we present an end-to-end recurrent neural network that takes available raw sensors as input (IMU, wheel odometry, and motor currents) and outputs velocity estimates. The results are compared to two state-of-the-art Kalman filters, which respectively include and exclude expensive velocity sensors. All methods have been extensively tested on a formula student driverless race car with very high sideslip (10{\deg} at the rear axle) and slip ratio (~20%), operating close to the limits of handling. The proposed network is able to estimate lateral velocity up to 15x better than the Kalman filter with the equivalent sensor input and matches (0.06 m/s RMSE) the Kalman filter with the expensive velocity sensor setup. 

Title: Experience-Embedded Visual Foresight
Abstract:  Visual foresight gives an agent a window into the future, which it can use to anticipate events before they happen and plan strategic behavior. Although impressive results have been achieved on video prediction in constrained settings, these models fail to generalize when confronted with unfamiliar real-world objects. In this paper, we tackle the generalization problem via fast adaptation, where we train a prediction model to quickly adapt to the observed visual dynamics of a novel object. Our method, Experience-embedded Visual Foresight (EVF), jointly learns a fast adaptation module, which encodes observed trajectories of the new object into a vector embedding, and a visual prediction model, which conditions on this embedding to generate physically plausible predictions. For evaluation, we compare our method against baselines on video prediction and benchmark its utility on two real-world control tasks. We show that our method is able to quickly adapt to new visual dynamics and achieves lower error than the baselines when manipulating novel objects. 

Title: Robust Dense Mapping for Large-Scale Dynamic Environments
Abstract:  We present a stereo-based dense mapping algorithm for large-scale dynamic urban environments. In contrast to other existing methods, we simultaneously reconstruct the static background, the moving objects, and the potentially moving but currently stationary objects separately, which is desirable for high-level mobile robotic tasks such as path planning in crowded environments. We use both instance-aware semantic segmentation and sparse scene flow to classify objects as either background, moving, or potentially moving, thereby ensuring that the system is able to model objects with the potential to transition from static to dynamic, such as parked cars. Given camera poses estimated from visual odometry, both the background and the (potentially) moving objects are reconstructed separately by fusing the depth maps computed from the stereo input. In addition to visual odometry, sparse scene flow is also used to estimate the 3D motions of the detected moving objects, in order to reconstruct them accurately. A map pruning technique is further developed to improve reconstruction accuracy and reduce memory consumption, leading to increased scalability. We evaluate our system thoroughly on the well-known KITTI dataset. Our system is capable of running on a PC at approximately 2.5Hz, with the primary bottleneck being the instance-aware semantic segmentation, which is a limitation we hope to address in future work. The source code is available from the project website (http://andreibarsan.github.io/dynslam). 

Title: VeREFINE: Integrating Object Pose Verification with Physics-guided Iterative Refinement
Abstract:  Accurate and robust object pose estimation for robotics applications requires verification and refinement steps. In this work, we propose to integrate hypotheses verification with object pose refinement guided by physics simulation. This allows the physical plausibility of individual object pose estimates and the stability of the estimated scene to be considered in a unified optimization. The proposed method is able to adapt to scenes of multiple objects and efficiently focuses on refining the most promising object poses in multi-hypotheses scenarios. We call this integrated approach VeREFINE and evaluate it on three datasets with varying scene complexity. The generality of the approach is shown by using three state-of-the-art pose estimators and three baseline refiners. Results show improvements over all baselines and on all datasets. Furthermore, our approach is applied in real-world grasping experiments and outperforms competing methods in terms of grasp success rate. Code is publicly available at github.com/dornik/verefine. 

Title: Learning Parametric Constraints in High Dimensions from Demonstrations
Abstract:  We present a scalable algorithm for learning parametric constraints in high dimensions from safe expert demonstrations. To reduce the ill-posedness of the constraint recovery problem, our method uses hit-and-run sampling to generate lower cost, and thus unsafe, trajectories. Both safe and unsafe trajectories are used to obtain a representation of the unsafe set that is compatible with the data by solving an integer program in that representation's parameter space. Our method can either leverage a known parameterization or incrementally grow a parameterization while remaining consistent with the data, and we provide theoretical guarantees on the conservativeness of the recovered unsafe set. We evaluate our method on high-dimensional constraints for high-dimensional systems by learning constraints for 7-DOF arm, quadrotor, and planar pushing examples, and show that our method outperforms baseline approaches. 

Title: Keep it Simple: Image Statistics Matching for Domain Adaptation
Abstract:  Applying an object detector, which is neither trained nor fine-tuned on data close to the final application, often leads to a substantial performance drop. In order to overcome this problem, it is necessary to consider a shift between source and target domains. Tackling the shift is known as Domain Adaptation (DA). In this work, we focus on unsupervised DA: maintaining the detection accuracy across different data distributions, when only unlabeled images are available of the target domain. Recent state-of-the-art methods try to reduce the domain gap using an adversarial training strategy which increases the performance but at the same time the complexity of the training procedure. In contrast, we look at the problem from a new perspective and keep it simple by solely matching image statistics between source and target domain. We propose to align either color histograms or mean and covariance of the source images towards the target domain. Hence, DA is accomplished without architectural add-ons and additional hyper-parameters. The benefit of the approaches is demonstrated by evaluating different domain shift scenarios on public data sets. In comparison to recent methods, we achieve state-of-the-art performance using a much simpler procedure for the training. Additionally, we show that applying our techniques significantly reduces the amount of synthetic data needed to learn a general model and thus increases the value of simulation. 

Title: Stereo Visual Inertial Pose Estimation Based on Feedforward-Feedback Loops
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a novel stereo visual inertial pose estimation method. Compared to the widely used filter-based or optimization-based approaches, the pose estimation process is modeled as a control system. Designed feedback or feedforward loops are introduced to achieve the stable control of the system, which include a gradient decreased feedback loop, a roll-pitch feed forward loop and a bias estimation feedback loop. This system, named FLVIS (Feedforward-feedback Loop-based Visual Inertial System), is evaluated on the popular EuRoc MAV dataset. FLVIS achieves high accuracy and robustness with respect to other state-of-the-art visual SLAM approaches. The system has also been implemented and tested on a UAV platform. The source code of this research is public to the research community. 

Title: Learning Extreme Hummingbird Maneuvers on Flapping Wing Robots
Abstract:  Biological studies show that hummingbirds can perform extreme aerobatic maneuvers during fast escape. Given a sudden looming visual stimulus at hover, a hummingbird initiates a fast backward translation coupled with a 180-degree yaw turn, which is followed by instant posture stabilization in just under 10 wingbeats. Consider the wingbeat frequency of 40Hz, this aggressive maneuver is carried out in just 0.2 seconds. Inspired by the hummingbirds' near-maximal performance during such extreme maneuvers, we developed a flight control strategy and experimentally demonstrated that such maneuverability can be achieved by an at-scale 12-gram hummingbird robot equipped with just two actuators. The proposed hybrid control policy combines model-based nonlinear control with model-free reinforcement learning. We use model-based nonlinear control for nominal flight control, as the dynamic model is relatively accurate for these conditions. However, during extreme maneuver, the modeling error becomes unmanageable. A model-free reinforcement learning policy trained in simulation was optimized to 'destabilize' the system and maximize the performance during maneuvering. The hybrid policy manifests a maneuver that is close to that observed in hummingbirds. Direct simulation-to-real transfer is achieved, demonstrating the hummingbird-like fast evasive maneuvers on the at-scale hummingbird robot. 

Title: Endoscopic vs. volumetric OCT imaging of mastoid bone structure for pose estimation in minimally invasive cochlear implant surgery
Abstract:  Purpose: The facial recess is a delicate structure that must be protected in minimally invasive cochlear implant surgery. Current research estimates the drill trajectory by using endoscopy of the unique mastoid patterns. However, missing depth information limits available features for a registration to preoperative CT data. Therefore, this paper evaluates OCT for enhanced imaging of drill holes in mastoid bone and compares OCT data to original endoscopic images. Methods: A catheter-based OCT probe is inserted into a drill trajectory of a mastoid phantom in a translation-rotation manner to acquire the inner surface state. The images are undistorted and stitched to create volumentric data of the drill hole. The mastoid cell pattern is segmented automatically and compared to ground truth. Results: The mastoid pattern segmented on images acquired with OCT show a similarity of J = 73.6 % to ground truth based on endoscopic images and measured with the Jaccard metric. Leveraged by additional depth information, automated segmentation tends to be more robust and fail-safe compared to endoscopic images. Conclusion: The feasibility of using a clinically approved OCT probe for imaging the drill hole in cochlear implantation is shown. The resulting volumentric images provide additional information on the shape of caveties in the bone structure, which will be useful for image-to-patient registration and to estimate the drill trajectory. This will be another step towards safe minimally invasive cochlear implantation. 

Title: Aggressive Perception-Aware Navigation using Deep Optical Flow Dynamics and PixelMPC
Abstract:  Recently, vision-based control has gained traction by leveraging the power of machine learning. In this work, we couple a model predictive control (MPC) framework to a visual pipeline. We introduce deep optical flow (DOF) dynamics, which is a combination of optical flow and robot dynamics. Using the DOF dynamics, MPC explicitly incorporates the predicted movement of relevant pixels into the planned trajectory of a robot. Our implementation of DOF is memory-efficient, data-efficient, and computationally cheap so that it can be computed in real-time for use in an MPC framework. The suggested Pixel Model Predictive Control (PixelMPC) algorithm controls the robot to accomplish a high-speed racing task while maintaining visibility of the important features (gates). This improves the reliability of vision-based estimators for localization and can eventually lead to safe autonomous flight. The proposed algorithm is tested in a photorealistic simulation with a high-speed drone racing task. 

Title: ROBEL: Robotics Benchmarks for Learning with Low-Cost Robots
Abstract:  ROBEL is an open-source platform of cost-effective robots designed for reinforcement learning in the real world. ROBEL introduces two robots, each aimed to accelerate reinforcement learning research in different task domains: D'Claw is a three-fingered hand robot that facilitates learning dexterous manipulation tasks, and D'Kitty is a four-legged robot that facilitates learning agile legged locomotion tasks. These low-cost, modular robots are easy to maintain and are robust enough to sustain on-hardware reinforcement learning from scratch with over 14000 training hours registered on them to date. To leverage this platform, we propose an extensible set of continuous control benchmark tasks for each robot. These tasks feature dense and sparse task objectives, and additionally introduce score metrics as hardware-safety. We provide benchmark scores on an initial set of tasks using a variety of learning-based methods. Furthermore, we show that these results can be replicated across copies of the robots located in different institutions. Code, documentation, design files, detailed assembly instructions, final policies, baseline details, task videos, and all supplementary materials required to reproduce the results are available at www.roboticsbenchmarks.org. 

Title: Vision-based Control of a Quadrotor in User Proximity: Mediated vs End-to-End Learning Approaches
Abstract:  We consider the task of controlling a quadrotor to hover in front of a freely moving user, using input data from an onboard camera. On this specific task we compare two widespread learning paradigms: a mediated approach, which learns an high-level state from the input and then uses it for deriving control signals; and an end-to-end approach, which skips high-level state estimation altogether. We show that despite their fundamental difference, both approaches yield equivalent performance on this task. We finally qualitatively analyze the behavior of a quadrotor implementing such approaches. 

Title: 3D Shape Perception from Monocular Vision, Touch, and Shape Priors
Abstract:  Perceiving accurate 3D object shape is important for robots to interact with the physical world. Current research along this direction has been primarily relying on visual observations. Vision, however useful, has inherent limitations due to occlusions and the 2D-3D ambiguities, especially for perception with a monocular camera. In contrast, touch gets precise local shape information, though its efficiency for reconstructing the entire shape could be low. In this paper, we propose a novel paradigm that efficiently perceives accurate 3D object shape by incorporating visual and tactile observations, as well as prior knowledge of common object shapes learned from large-scale shape repositories. We use vision first, applying neural networks with learned shape priors to predict an object's 3D shape from a single-view color image. We then use tactile sensing to refine the shape; the robot actively touches the object regions where the visual prediction has high uncertainty. Our method efficiently builds the 3D shape of common objects from a color image and a small number of tactile explorations (around 10). Our setup is easy to apply and has potentials to help robots better perform grasping or manipulation tasks on real-world objects. 

Title: Extrinsic Parameter Calibration for Line Scanning Cameras on Ground Vehicles with Navigation Systems Using a Calibration Pattern
Abstract:  Line scanning cameras, which capture only a single line of pixels, have been increasingly used in ground based mobile or robotic platforms. In applications where it is advantageous to directly georeference the camera data to world coordinates, an accurate estimate of the camera's 6D pose is required. This paper focuses on the common case where a mobile platform is equipped with a rigidly mounted line scanning camera, whose pose is unknown, and a navigation system providing vehicle body pose estimates. We propose a novel method that estimates the camera's pose relative to the navigation system. The approach involves imaging and manually labelling a calibration pattern with distinctly identifiable points, triangulating these points from camera and navigation system data and reprojecting them in order to compute a likelihood, which is maximised to estimate the 6D camera pose. Additionally, a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm is used to estimate the uncertainty of the offset. Tested on two different platforms, the method was able to estimate the pose to within 0.06 m / 1.05$^{\circ}$ and 0.18 m / 2.39$^{\circ}$. We also propose several approaches to displaying and interpreting the 6D results in a human readable way. 

Title: Three-dimensional Human Tracking of a Mobile Robot by Fusion of Tracking Results of Two Cameras
Abstract:  This paper proposes a process that uses two cameras to obtain three-dimensional (3D) information of a target object for human tracking. Results of human detection and tracking from two cameras are integrated to obtain the 3D information. OpenPose is used for human detection. In the case of a general processing a stereo camera, a range image of the entire scene is acquired as precisely as possible, and then the range image is processed. However, there are problems such as incorrect matching and computational cost for the calibration process. A new stereo vision framework is proposed to cope with the problems. The effectiveness of the proposed framework and the method is verified through target-tracking experiments. 

Title: Analyzing Modular CNN Architectures for Joint Depth Prediction and Semantic Segmentation
Abstract:  This paper addresses the task of designing a modular neural network architecture that jointly solves different tasks. As an example we use the tasks of depth estimation and semantic segmentation given a single RGB image. The main focus of this work is to analyze the cross-modality influence between depth and semantic prediction maps on their joint refinement. While most previous works solely focus on measuring improvements in accuracy, we propose a way to quantify the cross-modality influence. We show that there is a relationship between final accuracy and cross-modality influence, although not a simple linear one. Hence a larger cross-modality influence does not necessarily translate into an improved accuracy. We find that a beneficial balance between the cross-modality influences can be achieved by network architecture and conjecture that this relationship can be utilized to understand different network design choices. Towards this end we propose a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture that fuses the state of the state-of-the-art results for depth estimation and semantic labeling. By balancing the cross-modality influences between depth and semantic prediction, we achieve improved results for both tasks using the NYU-Depth v2 benchmark. 

Title: Human Visual Attention Prediction Boosts Learning & Performance of Autonomous Driving Agents
Abstract:  Autonomous driving is a multi-task problem requiring a deep understanding of the visual environment. End-to-end autonomous systems have attracted increasing interest as a method of learning to drive without exhaustively programming behaviours for different driving scenarios. When humans drive, they rely on a finely tuned sensory system which enables them to quickly acquire the information they need while filtering unnecessary details. This ability to identify task-specific high-interest regions within an image could be beneficial to autonomous driving agents and machine learning systems in general. To create a system capable of imitating human gaze patterns and visual attention, we collect eye movement data from human drivers in a virtual reality environment. We use this data to train deep neural networks predicting where humans are most likely to look when driving. We then use the outputs of this trained network to selectively mask driving images using a variety of masking techniques. Finally, autonomous driving agents are trained using these masked images as input. Upon comparison, we found that a dual-branch architecture which processes both raw and attention-masked images substantially outperforms all other models, reducing error in control signal predictions by 25.5\% compared to a standard end-to-end model trained only on raw images. 

Title: Objectness Scoring and Detection Proposals in Forward-Looking Sonar Images with Convolutional Neural Networks
Abstract:  Forward-looking sonar can capture high resolution images of underwater scenes, but their interpretation is complex. Generic object detection in such images has not been solved, specially in cases of small and unknown objects. In comparison, detection proposal algorithms have produced top performing object detectors in real-world color images. In this work we develop a Convolutional Neural Network that can reliably score objectness of image windows in forward-looking sonar images and by thresholding objectness, we generate detection proposals. In our dataset of marine garbage objects, we obtain 94% recall, generating around 60 proposals per image. The biggest strength of our method is that it can generalize to previously unseen objects. We show this by detecting chain links, walls and a wrench without previous training in such objects. We strongly believe our method can be used for class-independent object detection, with many real-world applications such as chain following and mine detection. 

Title: Joint 2D-3D-Semantic Data for Indoor Scene Understanding
Abstract:  We present a dataset of large-scale indoor spaces that provides a variety of mutually registered modalities from 2D, 2.5D and 3D domains, with instance-level semantic and geometric annotations. The dataset covers over 6,000m2 and contains over 70,000 RGB images, along with the corresponding depths, surface normals, semantic annotations, global XYZ images (all in forms of both regular and 360{\deg} equirectangular images) as well as camera information. It also includes registered raw and semantically annotated 3D meshes and point clouds. The dataset enables development of joint and cross-modal learning models and potentially unsupervised approaches utilizing the regularities present in large-scale indoor spaces. The dataset is available here: http://3Dsemantics.stanford.edu/ 

Title: Safe Reinforcement Learning via Curriculum Induction
Abstract:  In safety-critical applications, autonomous agents may need to learn in an environment where mistakes can be very costly. In such settings, the agent needs to behave safely not only after but also while learning. To achieve this, existing safe reinforcement learning methods make an agent rely on priors that let it avoid dangerous situations during exploration with high probability, but both the probabilistic guarantees and the smoothness assumptions inherent in the priors are not viable in many scenarios of interest such as autonomous driving. This paper presents an alternative approach inspired by human teaching, where an agent learns under the supervision of an automatic instructor that saves the agent from violating constraints during learning. In this model, we introduce the monitor that neither needs to know how to do well at the task the agent is learning nor needs to know how the environment works. Instead, it has a library of reset controllers that it activates when the agent starts behaving dangerously, preventing it from doing damage. Crucially, the choices of which reset controller to apply in which situation affect the speed of agent learning. Based on observing agents' progress, the teacher itself learns a policy for choosing the reset controllers, a curriculum, to optimize the agent's final policy reward. Our experiments use this framework in two environments to induce curricula for safe and efficient learning. 

Title: 3D Vision Guided Robotic Charging Station for Electric and Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles
Abstract:  Electric vehicles (EVs) and plug-in hybrid vehicles (PHEVs) are rapidly gaining popularity on our roads. Besides a comparatively high purchasing price, the main two problems limiting their use are the short driving range and inconvenient charging process. In this paper we address the following by presenting an automatic robot-based charging station with 3D vision guidance for plugging and unplugging the charger. First of all, the whole system concept consisting of a 3D vision system, an UR10 robot and a charging station is presented. Then we show the shape-based matching methods used to successfully identify and get the exact pose of the charging port. The same approach is used to calibrate the camera-robot system by using just known structure of the connector plug and no additional markers. Finally, a three-step robot motion planning procedure for plug-in is presented and functionality is demonstrated in a series of successful experiments. 

Title: Convolutional Neural Networks for Speech Controlled Prosthetic Hands
Abstract:  Speech recognition is one of the key topics in artificial intelligence, as it is one of the most common forms of communication in humans. Researchers have developed many speech-controlled prosthetic hands in the past decades, utilizing conventional speech recognition systems that use a combination of neural network and hidden Markov model. Recent advancements in general-purpose graphics processing units (GPGPUs) enable intelligent devices to run deep neural networks in real-time. Thus, state-of-the-art speech recognition systems have rapidly shifted from the paradigm of composite subsystems optimization to the paradigm of end-to-end optimization. However, a low-power embedded GPGPU cannot run these speech recognition systems in real-time. In this paper, we show the development of deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) for speech control of prosthetic hands that run in real-time on a NVIDIA Jetson TX2 developer kit. First, the device captures and converts speech into 2D features (like spectrogram). The CNN receives the 2D features and classifies the hand gestures. Finally, the hand gesture classes are sent to the prosthetic hand motion control system. The whole system is written in Python with Keras, a deep learning library that has a TensorFlow backend. Our experiments on the CNN demonstrate the 91% accuracy and 2ms running time of hand gestures (text output) from speech commands, which can be used to control the prosthetic hands in real-time. 

Title: Bayesian Optimization for Developmental Robotics with Meta-Learning by Parameters Bounds Reduction
Abstract:  In robotics, methods and softwares usually require optimizations of hyperparameters in order to be efficient for specific tasks, for instance industrial bin-picking from homogeneous heaps of different objects. We present a developmental framework based on long-term memory and reasoning modules (Bayesian Optimisation, visual similarity and parameters bounds reduction) allowing a robot to use meta-learning mechanism increasing the efficiency of such continuous and constrained parameters optimizations. The new optimization, viewed as a learning for the robot, can take advantage of past experiences (stored in the episodic and procedural memories) to shrink the search space by using reduced parameters bounds computed from the best optimizations realized by the robot with similar tasks of the new one (e.g. bin-picking from an homogenous heap of a similar object, based on visual similarity of objects stored in the semantic memory). As example, we have confronted the system to the constrained optimizations of 9 continuous hyperparameters for a professional software (Kamido) in industrial robotic arm bin-picking tasks, a step that is needed each time to handle correctly new object. We used a simulator to create bin-picking tasks for 8 different objects (7 in simulation and one with real setup, without and with meta-learning with experiences coming from other similar objects) achieving goods results despite a very small optimization budget, with a better performance reached when meta-learning is used (84.3% vs 78.9% of success overall, with a small budget of 30 iterations for each optimization) for every object tested (p-value=0.036). 

Title: Synthesizing Manipulation Sequences for Under-Specified Tasks using Unrolled Markov Random Fields
Abstract:  Many tasks in human environments require performing a sequence of navigation and manipulation steps involving objects. In unstructured human environments, the location and configuration of the objects involved often change in unpredictable ways. This requires a high-level planning strategy that is robust and flexible in an uncertain environment. We propose a novel dynamic planning strategy, which can be trained from a set of example sequences. High level tasks are expressed as a sequence of primitive actions or controllers (with appropriate parameters). Our score function, based on Markov Random Field (MRF), captures the relations between environment, controllers, and their arguments. By expressing the environment using sets of attributes, the approach generalizes well to unseen scenarios. We train the parameters of our MRF using a maximum margin learning method. We provide a detailed empirical validation of our overall framework demonstrating successful plan strategies for a variety of tasks. 

Title: Designing the Next Generation of Intelligent Personal Robotic Assistants for the Physically Impaired
Abstract:  The physically impaired commonly have difficulties performing simple routine tasks without relying on other individuals who are not always readily available and thus make them strive for independence. While their impaired abilities can in many cases be augmented (to certain degrees) with the use of assistive technologies, there has been little attention to their applications in embodied AI with assistive technologies. This paper presents the modular framework, architecture, and design of the mid-fidelity prototype of MARVIN: an artificial-intelligence-powered robotic assistant designed to help the physically impaired in performing simple day-to-day tasks. The prototype features a trivial locomotion unit and also utilizes various state-of-the-art neural network architectures for specific modular components of the system. These components perform specialized functions, such as automatic speech recognition, object detection, natural language understanding, speech synthesis, etc. We also discuss the constraints, challenges encountered, potential future applications and improvements towards succeeding prototypes. 

Title: Entropic Risk Measure in Policy Search
Abstract:  With the increasing pace of automation, modern robotic systems need to act in stochastic, non-stationary, partially observable environments. A range of algorithms for finding parameterized policies that optimize for long-term average performance have been proposed in the past. However, the majority of the proposed approaches does not explicitly take into account the variability of the performance metric, which may lead to finding policies that although performing well on average, can perform spectacularly bad in a particular run or over a period of time. To address this shortcoming, we study an approach to policy optimization that explicitly takes into account higher order statistics of the reward function. In this paper, we extend policy gradient methods to include the entropic risk measure in the objective function and evaluate their performance in simulation experiments and on a real-robot task of learning a hitting motion in robot badminton. 

Title: Robust Vision Challenge 2020 -- 1st Place Report for Panoptic Segmentation
Abstract:  In this technical report, we present key details of our winning panoptic segmentation architecture EffPS_b1bs4_RVC. Our network is a lightweight version of our state-of-the-art EfficientPS architecture that consists of our proposed shared backbone with a modified EfficientNet-B5 model as the encoder, followed by the 2-way FPN to learn semantically rich multi-scale features. It consists of two task-specific heads, a modified Mask R-CNN instance head and our novel semantic segmentation head that processes features of different scales with specialized modules for coherent feature refinement. Finally, our proposed panoptic fusion module adaptively fuses logits from each of the heads to yield the panoptic segmentation output. The Robust Vision Challenge 2020 benchmarking results show that our model is ranked #1 on Microsoft COCO, VIPER and WildDash, and is ranked #2 on Cityscapes and Mapillary Vistas, thereby achieving the overall rank #1 for the panoptic segmentation task. 

Title: Target Transfer Q-Learning and Its Convergence Analysis
Abstract:  Q-learning is one of the most popular methods in Reinforcement Learning (RL). Transfer Learning aims to utilize the learned knowledge from source tasks to help new tasks to improve the sample complexity of the new tasks. Considering that data collection in RL is both more time and cost consuming and Q-learning converges slowly comparing to supervised learning, different kinds of transfer RL algorithms are designed. However, most of them are heuristic with no theoretical guarantee of the convergence rate. Therefore, it is important for us to clearly understand when and how will transfer learning help RL method and provide the theoretical guarantee for the improvement of the sample complexity. In this paper, we propose to transfer the Q-function learned in the source task to the target of the Q-learning in the new task when certain safe conditions are satisfied. We call this new transfer Q-learning method target transfer Q-Learning. The safe conditions are necessary to avoid the harm to the new tasks and thus ensure the convergence of the algorithm. We study the convergence rate of the target transfer Q-learning. We prove that if the two tasks are similar with respect to the MDPs, the optimal Q-functions in the source and new RL tasks are similar which means the error of the transferred target Q-function in new MDP is small. Also, the convergence rate analysis shows that the target transfer Q-Learning will converge faster than Q-learning if the error of the transferred target Q-function is smaller than the current Q-function in the new task. Based on our theoretical results, we design the safe condition as the Bellman error of the transferred target Q-function is less than the current Q-function. Our experiments are consistent with our theoretical founding and verified the effectiveness of our proposed target transfer Q-learning method. 

Title: EPOpt: Learning Robust Neural Network Policies Using Model Ensembles
Abstract:  Sample complexity and safety are major challenges when learning policies with reinforcement learning for real-world tasks, especially when the policies are represented using rich function approximators like deep neural networks. Model-based methods where the real-world target domain is approximated using a simulated source domain provide an avenue to tackle the above challenges by augmenting real data with simulated data. However, discrepancies between the simulated source domain and the target domain pose a challenge for simulated training. We introduce the EPOpt algorithm, which uses an ensemble of simulated source domains and a form of adversarial training to learn policies that are robust and generalize to a broad range of possible target domains, including unmodeled effects. Further, the probability distribution over source domains in the ensemble can be adapted using data from target domain and approximate Bayesian methods, to progressively make it a better approximation. Thus, learning on a model ensemble, along with source domain adaptation, provides the benefit of both robustness and learning/adaptation. 

Title: ObjectNav Revisited: On Evaluation of Embodied Agents Navigating to Objects
Abstract:  We revisit the problem of Object-Goal Navigation (ObjectNav). In its simplest form, ObjectNav is defined as the task of navigating to an object, specified by its label, in an unexplored environment. In particular, the agent is initialized at a random location and pose in an environment and asked to find an instance of an object category, e.g., find a chair, by navigating to it. As the community begins to show increased interest in semantic goal specification for navigation tasks, a number of different often-inconsistent interpretations of this task are emerging. This document summarizes the consensus recommendations of this working group on ObjectNav. In particular, we make recommendations on subtle but important details of evaluation criteria (for measuring success when navigating towards a target object), the agent's embodiment parameters, and the characteristics of the environments within which the task is carried out. Finally, we provide a detailed description of the instantiation of these recommendations in challenges organized at the Embodied AI workshop at CVPR 2020 \url{http://embodied-ai.org} . 

Title: Learning 3D-aware Egocentric Spatial-Temporal Interaction via Graph Convolutional Networks
Abstract:  To enable intelligent automated driving systems, a promising strategy is to understand how human drives and interacts with road users in complicated driving situations. In this paper, we propose a 3D-aware egocentric spatial-temporal interaction framework for automated driving applications. Graph convolution networks (GCN) is devised for interaction modeling. We introduce three novel concepts into GCN. First, we decompose egocentric interactions into ego-thing and ego-stuff interaction, modeled by two GCNs. In both GCNs, ego nodes are introduced to encode the interaction between thing objects (e.g., car and pedestrian), and interaction between stuff objects (e.g., lane marking and traffic light). Second, objects' 3D locations are explicitly incorporated into GCN to better model egocentric interactions. Third, to implement ego-stuff interaction in GCN, we propose a MaskAlign operation to extract features for irregular objects. We validate the proposed framework on tactical driver behavior recognition. Extensive experiments are conducted using Honda Research Institute Driving Dataset, the largest dataset with diverse tactical driver behavior annotations. Our framework demonstrates substantial performance boost over baselines on the two experimental settings by 3.9% and 6.0%, respectively. Furthermore, we visualize the learned affinity matrices, which encode ego-thing and ego-stuff interactions, to showcase the proposed framework can capture interactions effectively. 

Title: Where is my forearm? Clustering of body parts from simultaneous tactile and linguistic input using sequential mapping
Abstract:  Humans and animals are constantly exposed to a continuous stream of sensory information from different modalities. At the same time, they form more compressed representations like concepts or symbols. In species that use language, this process is further structured by this interaction, where a mapping between the sensorimotor concepts and linguistic elements needs to be established. There is evidence that children might be learning language by simply disambiguating potential meanings based on multiple exposures to utterances in different contexts (cross-situational learning). In existing models, the mapping between modalities is usually found in a single step by directly using frequencies of referent and meaning co-occurrences. In this paper, we present an extension of this one-step mapping and introduce a newly proposed sequential mapping algorithm together with a publicly available Matlab implementation. For demonstration, we have chosen a less typical scenario: instead of learning to associate objects with their names, we focus on body representations. A humanoid robot is receiving tactile stimulations on its body, while at the same time listening to utterances of the body part names (e.g., hand, forearm and torso). With the goal at arriving at the correct "body categories", we demonstrate how a sequential mapping algorithm outperforms one-step mapping. In addition, the effect of data set size and noise in the linguistic input are studied. 

Title: Deep Learning for Single-View Instance Recognition
Abstract:  Deep learning methods have typically been trained on large datasets in which many training examples are available. However, many real-world product datasets have only a small number of images available for each product. We explore the use of deep learning methods for recognizing object instances when we have only a single training example per class. We show that feedforward neural networks outperform state-of-the-art methods for recognizing objects from novel viewpoints even when trained from just a single image per object. To further improve our performance on this task, we propose to take advantage of a supplementary dataset in which we observe a separate set of objects from multiple viewpoints. We introduce a new approach for training deep learning methods for instance recognition with limited training data, in which we use an auxiliary multi-view dataset to train our network to be robust to viewpoint changes. We find that this approach leads to a more robust classifier for recognizing objects from novel viewpoints, outperforming previous state-of-the-art approaches including keypoint-matching, template-based techniques, and sparse coding. 

Title: Learning Rich Features from RGB-D Images for Object Detection and Segmentation
Abstract:  In this paper we study the problem of object detection for RGB-D images using semantically rich image and depth features. We propose a new geocentric embedding for depth images that encodes height above ground and angle with gravity for each pixel in addition to the horizontal disparity. We demonstrate that this geocentric embedding works better than using raw depth images for learning feature representations with convolutional neural networks. Our final object detection system achieves an average precision of 37.3%, which is a 56% relative improvement over existing methods. We then focus on the task of instance segmentation where we label pixels belonging to object instances found by our detector. For this task, we propose a decision forest approach that classifies pixels in the detection window as foreground or background using a family of unary and binary tests that query shape and geocentric pose features. Finally, we use the output from our object detectors in an existing superpixel classification framework for semantic scene segmentation and achieve a 24% relative improvement over current state-of-the-art for the object categories that we study. We believe advances such as those represented in this paper will facilitate the use of perception in fields like robotics. 

Title: On-Board Vision Processing For Small UAVs: Time to Rethink Strategy
Abstract:  The ultimate research goal for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) is to facilitate autonomy of operation. Research in the last decade has highlighted the potential of vision sensing in this regard. Although vital for accomplishment of missions assigned to any type of unmanned aerial vehicles, vision sensing is more critical for small aerial vehicles due to lack of high precision inertial sensors. In addition, uncertainty of GPS signal in indoor and urban environments calls for more reliance on vision sensing for such small vehicles. With off-line processing does not offer an attractive option in terms of autonomy, these vehicles have been challenging platforms to implement vision processing onboard due to their strict payload capacity and power budget. The strict constraints drive the need for new vision processing architectures for small unmanned aerial vehicles. Recent research has shown encouraging results with FPGA based hardware architectures. This paper reviews the bottle necks involved in implementing vision processing on-board, advocates the potential of hardware based solutions to tackle strict constraints of small unmanned aerial vehicles and finally analyzes feasibility of ASICs, Structured ASICs and FPGAs for use on future systems. 

Title: Online Initialization and Extrinsic Spatial-Temporal Calibration for Monocular Visual-Inertial Odometry
Abstract:  This paper presents an online initialization method for bootstrapping the optimization-based monocular visual-inertial odometry (VIO). The method can online calibrate the relative transformation (spatial) and time offsets (temporal) among camera and IMU, as well as estimate the initial values of metric scale, velocity, gravity, gyroscope bias, and accelerometer bias during the initialization stage. To compensate for the impact of time offset, our method includes two short-term motion interpolation algorithms for the camera and IMU pose estimation. Besides, it includes a three-step process to incrementally estimate the parameters from coarse to fine. First, the extrinsic rotation, gyroscope bias, and time offset are estimated by minimizing the rotation difference between the camera and IMU. Second, the metric scale, gravity, and extrinsic translation are approximately estimated by using the compensated camera poses and ignoring the accelerometer bias. Third, these values are refined by taking into account the accelerometer bias and the gravitational magnitude. For further optimizing the system states, a nonlinear optimization algorithm, which considers the time offset, is introduced for global and local optimization. Experimental results on public datasets show that the initial values and the extrinsic parameters, as well as the sensor poses, can be accurately estimated by the proposed method. 

Title: DeepPCO: End-to-End Point Cloud Odometry through Deep Parallel Neural Network
Abstract:  Odometry is of key importance for localization in the absence of a map. There is considerable work in the area of visual odometry (VO), and recent advances in deep learning have brought novel approaches to VO, which directly learn salient features from raw images. These learning-based approaches have led to more accurate and robust VO systems. However, they have not been well applied to point cloud data yet. In this work, we investigate how to exploit deep learning to estimate point cloud odometry (PCO), which may serve as a critical component in point cloud-based downstream tasks or learning-based systems. Specifically, we propose a novel end-to-end deep parallel neural network called DeepPCO, which can estimate the 6-DOF poses using consecutive point clouds. It consists of two parallel sub-networks to estimate 3-D translation and orientation respectively rather than a single neural network. We validate our approach on KITTI Visual Odometry/SLAM benchmark dataset with different baselines. Experiments demonstrate that the proposed approach achieves good performance in terms of pose accuracy. 

Title: Design Space of Behaviour Planning for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  We explore the complex design space of behaviour planning for autonomous driving. Design choices that successfully address one aspect of behaviour planning can critically constrain others. To aid the design process, in this work we decompose the design space with respect to important choices arising from the current state of the art approaches, and describe the resulting trade-offs. In doing this, we also identify interesting directions of future work. 

Title: Online LiDAR-SLAM for Legged Robots with Robust Registration and Deep-Learned Loop Closure
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a factor-graph LiDAR-SLAM system which incorporates a state-of-the-art deeply learned feature-based loop closure detector to enable a legged robot to localize and map in industrial environments. These facilities can be badly lit and comprised of indistinct metallic structures, thus our system uses only LiDAR sensing and was developed to run on the quadruped robot's navigation PC. Point clouds are accumulated using an inertial-kinematic state estimator before being aligned using ICP registration. To close loops we use a loop proposal mechanism which matches individual segments between clouds. We trained a descriptor offline to match these segments. The efficiency of our method comes from carefully designing the network architecture to minimize the number of parameters such that this deep learning method can be deployed in real-time using only the CPU of a legged robot, a major contribution of this work. The set of odometry and loop closure factors are updated using pose graph optimization. Finally we present an efficient risk alignment prediction method which verifies the reliability of the registrations. Experimental results at an industrial facility demonstrated the robustness and flexibility of our system, including autonomous following paths derived from the SLAM map. 

Title: Learning from Naturalistic Driving Data for Human-like Autonomous Highway Driving
Abstract:  Driving in a human-like manner is important for an autonomous vehicle to be a smart and predictable traffic participant. To achieve this goal, parameters of the motion planning module should be carefully tuned, which needs great effort and expert knowledge. In this study, a method of learning cost parameters of a motion planner from naturalistic driving data is proposed. The learning is achieved by encouraging the selected trajectory to approximate the human driving trajectory under the same traffic situation. The employed motion planner follows a widely accepted methodology that first samples candidate trajectories in the trajectory space, then select the one with minimal cost as the planned trajectory. Moreover, in addition to traditional factors such as comfort, efficiency and safety, the cost function is proposed to incorporate incentive of behavior decision like a human driver, so that both lane change decision and motion planning are coupled into one framework. Two types of lane incentive cost -- heuristic and learning based -- are proposed and implemented. To verify the validity of the proposed method, a data set is developed by using the naturalistic trajectory data of human drivers collected on the motorways in Beijing, containing samples of lane changes to the left and right lanes, and car followings. Experiments are conducted with respect to both lane change decision and motion planning, and promising results are achieved. 

Title: Efficiently Calibrating Cable-Driven Surgical Robots with RGBD Fiducial Sensing and Recurrent Neural Networks
Abstract:  Automation of surgical subtasks using cable-driven robotic surgical assistants (RSAs) such as Intuitive Surgical's da Vinci Research Kit (dVRK) is challenging due to imprecision in control from cable-related effects such as cable stretching and hysteresis. We propose a novel approach to efficiently calibrate such robots by placing a 3D printed fiducial coordinate frames on the arm and end-effector that is tracked using RGBD sensing. To measure the coupling and history-dependent effects between joints, we analyze data from sampled trajectories and consider 13 approaches to modeling. These models include linear regression and LSTM recurrent neural networks, each with varying temporal window length to provide compensatory feedback. With the proposed method, data collection of 1800 samples takes 31 minutes and model training takes under 1 minute. Results on a test set of reference trajectories suggest that the trained model can reduce the mean tracking error of the physical robot from 2.96 mm to 0.65 mm. Results on the execution of open-loop trajectories of the FLS peg transfer surgeon training task suggest that the best model increases success rate from 39.4 % to 96.7 %, producing performance comparable to that of an expert surgical resident. Supplementary materials, including code and 3D-printable models, are available at https://sites.google.com/berkeley.edu/surgical-calibration 

Title: Estimating Fingertip Forces, Torques, and Local Curvatures from Fingernail Images
Abstract:  The study of dexterous manipulation has provided important insights in humans sensorimotor control as well as inspiration for manipulation strategies in robotic hands. Previous work focused on experimental environment with restrictions. Here we describe a method using the deformation and color distribution of the fingernail and its surrounding skin, to estimate the fingertip forces, torques and contact surface curvatures for various objects, including the shape and material of the contact surfaces and the weight of the objects. The proposed method circumvents limitations associated with sensorized objects, gloves or fixed contact surface type. In addition, compared with previous single finger estimation in an experimental environment, we extend the approach to multiple finger force estimation, which can be used for applications such as human grasping analysis. Four algorithms are used, c.q., Gaussian process (GP), Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), Neural Networks with Fast Dropout (NN-FD) and Recurrent Neural Networks with Fast Dropout (RNN-FD), to model a mapping from images to the corresponding labels. The results further show that the proposed method has high accuracy to predict force, torque and contact surface. 

Title: Stereo obstacle detection for unmanned surface vehicles by IMU-assisted semantic segmentation
Abstract:  A new obstacle detection algorithm for unmanned surface vehicles (USVs) is presented. A state-of-the-art graphical model for semantic segmentation is extended to incorporate boat pitch and roll measurements from the on-board inertial measurement unit (IMU), and a stereo verification algorithm that consolidates tentative detections obtained from the segmentation is proposed. The IMU readings are used to estimate the location of horizon line in the image, which automatically adjusts the priors in the probabilistic semantic segmentation model. We derive the equations for projecting the horizon into images, propose an efficient optimization algorithm for the extended graphical model, and offer a practical IMU-camera-USV calibration procedure. Using an USV equipped with multiple synchronized sensors, we captured a new challenging multi-modal dataset, and annotated its images with water edge and obstacles. Experimental results show that the proposed algorithm significantly outperforms the state of the art, with nearly 30% improvement in water-edge detection accuracy, an over 21% reduction of false positive rate, an almost 60% reduction of false negative rate, and an over 65% increase of true positive rate, while its Matlab implementation runs in real-time. 

Title: Steering a Predator Robot using a Mixed Frame/Event-Driven Convolutional Neural Network
Abstract:  This paper describes the application of a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) in the context of a predator/prey scenario. The CNN is trained and run on data from a Dynamic and Active Pixel Sensor (DAVIS) mounted on a Summit XL robot (the predator), which follows another one (the prey). The CNN is driven by both conventional image frames and dynamic vision sensor "frames" that consist of a constant number of DAVIS ON and OFF events. The network is thus "data driven" at a sample rate proportional to the scene activity, so the effective sample rate varies from 15 Hz to 240 Hz depending on the robot speeds. The network generates four outputs: steer right, left, center and non-visible. After off-line training on labeled data, the network is imported on the on-board Summit XL robot which runs jAER and receives steering directions in real time. Successful results on closed-loop trials, with accuracies up to 87% or 92% (depending on evaluation criteria) are reported. Although the proposed approach discards the precise DAVIS event timing, it offers the significant advantage of compatibility with conventional deep learning technology without giving up the advantage of data-driven computing. 

Title: Probabilistic 3D Multi-Object Tracking for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  3D multi-object tracking is a key module in autonomous driving applications that provides a reliable dynamic representation of the world to the planning module. In this paper, we present our on-line tracking method, which made the first place in the NuScenes Tracking Challenge, held at the AI Driving Olympics Workshop at NeurIPS 2019. Our method estimates the object states by adopting a Kalman Filter. We initialize the state covariance as well as the process and observation noise covariance with statistics from the training set. We also use the stochastic information from the Kalman Filter in the data association step by measuring the Mahalanobis distance between the predicted object states and current object detections. Our experimental results on the NuScenes validation and test set show that our method outperforms the AB3DMOT baseline method by a large margin in the Average Multi-Object Tracking Accuracy (AMOTA) metric. 

Title: A Game Theoretic Framework for Model Based Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Model-based reinforcement learning (MBRL) has recently gained immense interest due to its potential for sample efficiency and ability to incorporate off-policy data. However, designing stable and efficient MBRL algorithms using rich function approximators have remained challenging. To help expose the practical challenges in MBRL and simplify algorithm design from the lens of abstraction, we develop a new framework that casts MBRL as a game between: (1) a policy player, which attempts to maximize rewards under the learned model; (2) a model player, which attempts to fit the real-world data collected by the policy player. For algorithm development, we construct a Stackelberg game between the two players, and show that it can be solved with approximate bi-level optimization. This gives rise to two natural families of algorithms for MBRL based on which player is chosen as the leader in the Stackelberg game. Together, they encapsulate, unify, and generalize many previous MBRL algorithms. Furthermore, our framework is consistent with and provides a clear basis for heuristics known to be important in practice from prior works. Finally, through experiments we validate that our proposed algorithms are highly sample efficient, match the asymptotic performance of model-free policy gradient, and scale gracefully to high-dimensional tasks like dexterous hand manipulation. 

Title: Autonomous Removal of Perspective Distortion for Robotic Elevator Button Recognition
Abstract:  Elevator button recognition is considered an indispensable function for enabling the autonomous elevator operation of mobile robots. However, due to unfavorable image conditions and various image distortions, the recognition accuracy remains to be improved. In this paper, we present a novel algorithm that can autonomously correct perspective distortions of elevator panel images. The algorithm first leverages the Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) to conduct a grid fitting process based on button recognition results, then utilizes the estimated grid centers as reference features to estimate camera motions for correcting perspective distortions. The algorithm performs on a single image autonomously and does not need explicit feature detection or feature matching procedure, which is much more robust to noises and outliers than traditional feature-based geometric approaches. To verify the effectiveness of the algorithm, we collect an elevator panel dataset of 50 images captured from different angles of view. Experimental results show that the proposed algorithm can accurately estimate camera motions and effectively remove perspective distortions. 

Title: A Survey on Sensor Technologies for Unmanned Ground Vehicles
Abstract:  Unmanned ground vehicles have a huge development potential in both civilian and military fields, and have become the focus of research in various countries. In addition, high-precision, high-reliability sensors are significant for UGVs' efficient operation. This paper proposes a brief review on sensor technologies for UGVs. Firstly, characteristics of various sensors are introduced. Then the strengths and weaknesses of different sensors as well as their application scenarios are compared. Furthermore, sensor applications in some existing UGVs are summarized. Finally, the hotspots of sensor technologies are forecasted to point the development direction. 

Title: Integrating Three Mechanisms of Visual Attention for Active Visual Search
Abstract:  Algorithms for robotic visual search can benefit from the use of visual attention methods in order to reduce computational costs. Here, we describe how three distinct mechanisms of visual attention can be integrated and productively used to improve search performance. The first is viewpoint selection as has been proposed earlier using a greedy search over a probabilistic occupancy grid representation. The second is top-down object-based attention using a histogram backprojection method, also previously described. The third is visual saliency. This is novel in the sense that it is not used as a region-of-interest method for the current image but rather as a noncombinatorial form of look-ahead in search for future viewpoint selection. Additionally, the integration of these three attentional schemes within a single framework is unique and not previously studied. We examine our proposed method in scenarios where little or no information regarding the environment is available. Through extensive experiments on a mobile robot, we show that our method improves visual search performance by reducing the time and number of actions required. 

Title: Towards Differentiable Resampling
Abstract:  Resampling is a key component of sample-based recursive state estimation in particle filters. Recent work explores differentiable particle filters for end-to-end learning. However, resampling remains a challenge in these works, as it is inherently non-differentiable. We address this challenge by replacing traditional resampling with a learned neural network resampler. We present a novel network architecture, the particle transformer, and train it for particle resampling using a likelihood-based loss function over sets of particles. Incorporated into a differentiable particle filter, our model can be end-to-end optimized jointly with the other particle filter components via gradient descent. Our results show that our learned resampler outperforms traditional resampling techniques on synthetic data and in a simulated robot localization task. 

Title: Robust and Globally Optimal Manhattan Frame Estimation in Near Real Time
Abstract:  Most man-made environments, such as urban and indoor scenes, consist of a set of parallel and orthogonal planar structures. These structures are approximated by the Manhattan world assumption, in which notion can be represented as a Manhattan frame (MF). Given a set of inputs such as surface normals or vanishing points, we pose an MF estimation problem as a consensus set maximization that maximizes the number of inliers over the rotation search space. Conventionally, this problem can be solved by a branch-and-bound framework, which mathematically guarantees global optimality. However, the computational time of the conventional branch-and-bound algorithms is rather far from real-time. In this paper, we propose a novel bound computation method on an efficient measurement domain for MF estimation, i.e., the extended Gaussian image (EGI). By relaxing the original problem, we can compute the bound with a constant complexity, while preserving global optimality. Furthermore, we quantitatively and qualitatively demonstrate the performance of the proposed method for various synthetic and real-world data. We also show the versatility of our approach through three different applications: extension to multiple MF estimation, 3D rotation based video stabilization, and vanishing point estimation (line clustering). 

Title: Online Self-supervised Scene Segmentation for Micro Aerial Vehicles
Abstract:  Recently, there have been numerous advances in the development of payload and power constrained lightweight Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs). As these robots aspire for high-speed autonomous flights in complex dynamic environments, robust scene understanding at long-range becomes critical. The problem is heavily characterized by either the limitations imposed by sensor capabilities for geometry-based methods, or the need for large-amounts of manually annotated training data required by data-driven methods. This motivates the need to build systems that have the capability to alleviate these problems by exploiting the complimentary strengths of both geometry and data-driven methods. In this paper, we take a step in this direction and propose a generic framework for adaptive scene segmentation using self-supervised online learning. We present this in the context of vision-based autonomous MAV flight, and demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed system through extensive experiments on benchmark datasets and real-world field tests. 

Title: Alice's Adventures in the Markovian World
Abstract:  This paper proposes an algorithm Alice having no access to the physics law of the environment, which is actually linear with stochastic noise, and learns to make decisions directly online without a training phase or a stable policy as initial input. Neither estimating the system parameters nor the value functions online, the proposed algorithm generalizes one of the most fundamental online learning algorithms Follow-the-Leader into a linear Gauss-Markov process setting, with a regularization term similar to the momentum method in the gradient descent algorithm, and a feasible online constraint inspired by Lyapunov's Second Theorem. The proposed algorithm is considered as a mirror optimization to the model predictive control. Only knowing the state-action alignment relationship, with the ability to observe every state exactly, a no-regret proof of the algorithm without state noise is given. The analysis of the general linear system with stochastic noise is shown with a sufficient condition for the no-regret proof. The simulations compare the performance of Alice with another recent work and verify the great flexibility of Alice. 

Title: Evaluation of Plane Detection with RANSAC According to Density of 3D Point Clouds
Abstract:  We have implemented a method that detects planar regions from 3D scan data using Random Sample Consensus (RANSAC) algorithm to address the issue of a trade-off between the scanning speed and the point density of 3D scanning. However, the limitation of the implemented method has not been clear yet. In this paper, we conducted an additional experiment to evaluate the implemented method by changing its parameter and environments in both high and low point density data. As a result, the number of detected planes in high point density data was different from that in low point density data with the same parameter value. 

Title: On-Board Visual Tracking with Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS)
Abstract:  This paper presents the development of a real time tracking algorithm that runs on a 1.2 GHz PC/104 computer on-board a small UAV. The algorithm uses zero mean normalized cross correlation to detect and locate an object in the image. A kalman filter is used to make the tracking algorithm computationally efficient. Object position in an image frame is predicted using the motion model and a search window, centered at the predicted position is generated. Object position is updated with the measurement from object detection. The detected position is sent to the motion controller to move the gimbal so that the object stays at the center of the image frame. Detection and tracking is autonomously carried out on the payload computer and the system is able to work in two different methods. The first method starts detecting and tracking using a stored image patch. The second method allows the operator on the ground to select the interest object for the UAV to track. The system is capable of re-detecting an object, in the event of tracking failure. Performance of the tracking system was verified both in the lab and on the field by mounting the payload on a vehicle and simulating a flight. Tests show that the system can detect and track a diverse set of objects in real time. Flight testing of the system will be conducted at the next available opportunity. 

Title: Combining Subgoal Graphs with Reinforcement Learning to Build a Rational Pathfinder
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a hierarchical path planning framework called SG-RL (subgoal graphs-reinforcement learning), to plan rational paths for agents maneuvering in continuous and uncertain environments. By "rational", we mean (1) efficient path planning to eliminate first-move lags; (2) collision-free and smooth for agents with kinematic constraints satisfied. SG-RL works in a two-level manner. At the first level, SG-RL uses a geometric path-planning method, i.e., Simple Subgoal Graphs (SSG), to efficiently find optimal abstract paths, also called subgoal sequences. At the second level, SG-RL uses an RL method, i.e., Least-Squares Policy Iteration (LSPI), to learn near-optimal motion-planning policies which can generate kinematically feasible and collision-free trajectories between adjacent subgoals. The first advantage of the proposed method is that SSG can solve the limitations of sparse reward and local minima trap for RL agents; thus, LSPI can be used to generate paths in complex environments. The second advantage is that, when the environment changes slightly (i.e., unexpected obstacles appearing), SG-RL does not need to reconstruct subgoal graphs and replan subgoal sequences using SSG, since LSPI can deal with uncertainties by exploiting its generalization ability to handle changes in environments. Simulation experiments in representative scenarios demonstrate that, compared with existing methods, SG-RL can work well on large-scale maps with relatively low action-switching frequencies and shorter path lengths, and SG-RL can deal with small changes in environments. We further demonstrate that the design of reward functions and the types of training environments are important factors for learning feasible policies. 

Title: Training a Fast Object Detector for LiDAR Range Images Using Labeled Data from Sensors with Higher Resolution
Abstract:  In this paper, we describe a strategy for training neural networks for object detection in range images obtained from one type of LiDAR sensor using labeled data from a different type of LiDAR sensor. Additionally, an efficient model for object detection in range images for use in self-driving cars is presented. Currently, the highest performing algorithms for object detection from LiDAR measurements are based on neural networks. Training these networks using supervised learning requires large annotated datasets. Therefore, most research using neural networks for object detection from LiDAR point clouds is conducted on a very small number of publicly available datasets. Consequently, only a small number of sensor types are used. We use an existing annotated dataset to train a neural network that can be used with a LiDAR sensor that has a lower resolution than the one used for recording the annotated dataset. This is done by simulating data from the lower resolution LiDAR sensor based on the higher resolution dataset. Furthermore, improvements to models that use LiDAR range images for object detection are presented. The results are validated using both simulated sensor data and data from an actual lower resolution sensor mounted to a research vehicle. It is shown that the model can detect objects from 360{\deg} range images in real time. 

Title: Real-time Vision-based Depth Reconstruction with NVidia Jetson
Abstract:  Vision-based depth reconstruction is a challenging problem extensively studied in computer vision but still lacking universal solution. Reconstructing depth from single image is particularly valuable to mobile robotics as it can be embedded to the modern vision-based simultaneous localization and mapping (vSLAM) methods providing them with the metric information needed to construct accurate maps in real scale. Typically, depth reconstruction is done nowadays via fully-convolutional neural networks (FCNNs). In this work we experiment with several FCNN architectures and introduce a few enhancements aimed at increasing both the effectiveness and the efficiency of the inference. We experimentally determine the solution that provides the best performance/accuracy tradeoff and is able to run on NVidia Jetson with the framerates exceeding 16FPS for 320 x 240 input. We also evaluate the suggested models by conducting monocular vSLAM of unknown indoor environment on NVidia Jetson TX2 in real-time. Open-source implementation of the models and the inference node for Robot Operating System (ROS) are available at https://github.com/CnnDepth/tx2_fcnn_node. 

Title: Bio-LSTM: A Biomechanically Inspired Recurrent Neural Network for 3D Pedestrian Pose and Gait Prediction
Abstract:  In applications such as autonomous driving, it is important to understand, infer, and anticipate the intention and future behavior of pedestrians. This ability allows vehicles to avoid collisions and improve ride safety and quality. This paper proposes a biomechanically inspired recurrent neural network (Bio-LSTM) that can predict the location and 3D articulated body pose of pedestrians in a global coordinate frame, given 3D poses and locations estimated in prior frames with inaccuracy. The proposed network is able to predict poses and global locations for multiple pedestrians simultaneously, for pedestrians up to 45 meters from the cameras (urban intersection scale). The outputs of the proposed network are full-body 3D meshes represented in Skinned Multi-Person Linear (SMPL) model parameters. The proposed approach relies on a novel objective function that incorporates the periodicity of human walking (gait), the mirror symmetry of the human body, and the change of ground reaction forces in a human gait cycle. This paper presents prediction results on the PedX dataset, a large-scale, in-the-wild data set collected at real urban intersections with heavy pedestrian traffic. Results show that the proposed network can successfully learn the characteristics of pedestrian gait and produce accurate and consistent 3D pose predictions. 

Title: Fast Robust Monocular Depth Estimation for Obstacle Detection with Fully Convolutional Networks
Abstract:  Obstacle Detection is a central problem for any robotic system, and critical for autonomous systems that travel at high speeds in unpredictable environment. This is often achieved through scene depth estimation, by various means. When fast motion is considered, the detection range must be longer enough to allow for safe avoidance and path planning. Current solutions often make assumption on the motion of the vehicle that limit their applicability, or work at very limited ranges due to intrinsic constraints. We propose a novel appearance-based Object Detection system that is able to detect obstacles at very long range and at a very high speed (~300Hz), without making assumptions on the type of motion. We achieve these results using a Deep Neural Network approach trained on real and synthetic images and trading some depth accuracy for fast, robust and consistent operation. We show how photo-realistic synthetic images are able to solve the problem of training set dimension and variety typical of machine learning approaches, and how our system is robust to massive blurring of test images. 

Title: Reinforcement Learning in Topology-based Representation for Human Body Movement with Whole Arm Manipulation
Abstract:  Moving a human body or a large and bulky object can require the strength of whole arm manipulation (WAM). This type of manipulation places the load on the robot's arms and relies on global properties of the interaction to succeed---rather than local contacts such as grasping or non-prehensile pushing. In this paper, we learn to generate motions that enable WAM for holding and transporting of humans in certain rescue or patient care scenarios. We model the task as a reinforcement learning problem in order to provide a behavior that can directly respond to external perturbation and human motion. For this, we represent global properties of the robot-human interaction with topology-based coordinates that are computed from arm and torso positions. These coordinates also allow transferring the learned policy to other body shapes and sizes. For training and evaluation, we simulate a dynamic sea rescue scenario and show in quantitative experiments that the policy can solve unseen scenarios with differently-shaped humans, floating humans, or with perception noise. Our qualitative experiments show the subsequent transporting after holding is achieved and we demonstrate that the policy can be directly transferred to a real world setting. 

Title: Regression Planning Networks
Abstract:  Recent learning-to-plan methods have shown promising results on planning directly from observation space. Yet, their ability to plan for long-horizon tasks is limited by the accuracy of the prediction model. On the other hand, classical symbolic planners show remarkable capabilities in solving long-horizon tasks, but they require predefined symbolic rules and symbolic states, restricting their real-world applicability. In this work, we combine the benefits of these two paradigms and propose a learning-to-plan method that can directly generate a long-term symbolic plan conditioned on high-dimensional observations. We borrow the idea of regression (backward) planning from classical planning literature and introduce Regression Planning Networks (RPN), a neural network architecture that plans backward starting at a task goal and generates a sequence of intermediate goals that reaches the current observation. We show that our model not only inherits many favorable traits from symbolic planning, e.g., the ability to solve previously unseen tasks but also can learn from visual inputs in an end-to-end manner. We evaluate the capabilities of RPN in a grid world environment and a simulated 3D kitchen environment featuring complex visual scenes and long task horizons, and show that it achieves near-optimal performance in completely new task instances. 

Title: Dot-to-Dot: Explainable Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning for Robotic Manipulation
Abstract:  Robotic systems are ever more capable of automation and fulfilment of complex tasks, particularly with reliance on recent advances in intelligent systems, deep learning and artificial intelligence. However, as robots and humans come closer in their interactions, the matter of interpretability, or explainability of robot decision-making processes for the human grows in importance. A successful interaction and collaboration will only take place through mutual understanding of underlying representations of the environment and the task at hand. This is currently a challenge in deep learning systems. We present a hierarchical deep reinforcement learning system, consisting of a low-level agent handling the large actions/states space of a robotic system efficiently, by following the directives of a high-level agent which is learning the high-level dynamics of the environment and task. This high-level agent forms a representation of the world and task at hand that is interpretable for a human operator. The method, which we call Dot-to-Dot, is tested on a MuJoCo-based model of the Fetch Robotics Manipulator, as well as a Shadow Hand, to test its performance. Results show efficient learning of complex actions/states spaces by the low-level agent, and an interpretable representation of the task and decision-making process learned by the high-level agent. 

Title: Toward Autonomous Rotation-Aware Unmanned Aerial Grasping
Abstract:  Autonomous Unmanned Aerial Manipulators (UAMs) have shown promising potentials to transform passive sensing missions into active 3-dimension interactive missions, but they still suffer from some difficulties impeding their wide applications, such as target detection and stabilization. This letter presents a vision-based autonomous UAM with a 3DoF robotic arm for rotational grasping, with a compensation on displacement for center of gravity. First, the hardware, software architecture and state estimation methods are detailed. All the mechanical designs are fully provided as open-source hardware for the reuse by the community. Then, we analyze the flow distribution generated by rotors and plan the robotic arm's motion based on this analysis. Next, a novel detection approach called Rotation-SqueezeDet is proposed to enable rotation-aware grasping, which can give the target position and rotation angle in near real-time on Jetson TX2. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed scheme is validated in multiple experimental trials, highlighting it's applicability of autonomous aerial grasping in GPS-denied environments. 

Title: Visual Memory for Robust Path Following
Abstract:  Humans routinely retrace paths in a novel environment both forwards and backwards despite uncertainty in their motion. This paper presents an approach for doing so. Given a demonstration of a path, a first network generates a path abstraction. Equipped with this abstraction, a second network observes the world and decides how to act to retrace the path under noisy actuation and a changing environment. The two networks are optimized end-to-end at training time. We evaluate the method in two realistic simulators, performing path following and homing under actuation noise and environmental changes. Our experiments show that our approach outperforms classical approaches and other learning based baselines. 

Title: Reinforcement Learning of Active Vision for Manipulating Objects under Occlusions
Abstract:  We consider artificial agents that learn to jointly control their gripperand camera in order to reinforcement learn manipulation policies in the presenceof occlusions from distractor objects. Distractors often occlude the object of in-terest and cause it to disappear from the field of view. We propose hand/eye con-trollers that learn to move the camera to keep the object within the field of viewand visible, in coordination to manipulating it to achieve the desired goal, e.g.,pushing it to a target location. We incorporate structural biases of object-centricattention within our actor-critic architectures, which our experiments suggest tobe a key for good performance. Our results further highlight the importance ofcurriculum with regards to environment difficulty. The resulting active vision /manipulation policies outperform static camera setups for a variety of clutteredenvironments. 

Title: EAO-SLAM: Monocular Semi-Dense Object SLAM Based on Ensemble Data Association
Abstract:  Object-level data association and pose estimation play a fundamental role in semantic SLAM, which remain unsolved due to the lack of robust and accurate algorithms. In this work, we propose an ensemble data associate strategy for integrating the parametric and nonparametric statistic tests. By exploiting the nature of different statistics, our method can effectively aggregate the information of different measurements, and thus significantly improve the robustness and accuracy of data association. We then present an accurate object pose estimation framework, in which an outliers-robust centroid and scale estimation algorithm and an object pose initialization algorithm are developed to help improve the optimality of pose estimation results. Furthermore, we build a SLAM system that can generate semi-dense or lightweight object-oriented maps with a monocular camera. Extensive experiments are conducted on three publicly available datasets and a real scenario. The results show that our approach significantly outperforms state-of-the-art techniques in accuracy and robustness. The source code is available on: https://github.com/yanmin-wu/EAO-SLAM. 

Title: Clinical Patient Tracking in the Presence of Transient and Permanent Occlusions via Geodesic Feature
Abstract:  This paper develops a method to use RGB-D cameras to track the motions of a human spinal cord injury patient undergoing spinal stimulation and physical rehabilitation. Because clinicians must remain close to the patient during training sessions, the patient is usually under permanent and transient occlusions due to the training equipment and the movements of the attending clinicians. These occlusions can significantly degrade the accuracy of existing human tracking methods. To improve the data association problem in these circumstances, we present a new global feature based on the geodesic distances of surface mesh points to a set of anchor points. Transient occlusions are handled via a multi-hypothesis tracking framework. To evaluate the method, we simulated different occlusion sizes on a data set captured from a human in varying movement patterns, and compared the proposed feature with other tracking methods. The results show that the proposed method achieves robustness to both surface deformations and transient occlusions. 

Title: Learning Humanoid Robot Running Skills through Proximal Policy Optimization
Abstract:  In the current level of evolution of Soccer 3D, motion control is a key factor in team's performance. Recent works takes advantages of model-free approaches based on Machine Learning to exploit robot dynamics in order to obtain faster locomotion skills, achieving running policies and, therefore, opening a new research direction in the Soccer 3D environment. In this work, we present a methodology based on Deep Reinforcement Learning that learns running skills without any prior knowledge, using a neural network whose inputs are related to robot's dynamics. Our results outperformed the previous state-of-the-art sprint velocity reported in Soccer 3D literature by a significant margin. It also demonstrated improvement in sample efficiency, being able to learn how to run in just few hours. We reported our results analyzing the training procedure and also evaluating the policies in terms of speed, reliability and human similarity. Finally, we presented key factors that lead us to improve previous results and shared some ideas for future work. 

Title: Appearance Based Robot and Human Activity Recognition System
Abstract:  In this work, we present an appearance based human activity recognition system. It uses background modeling to segment the foreground object and extracts useful discriminative features for representing activities performed by humans and robots. Subspace based method like principal component analysis is used to extract low dimensional features from large voluminous activity images. These low dimensional features are then used to classify an activity. An apparatus is designed using a webcam, which watches a robot replicating a human fall under indoor environment. In this apparatus, a robot performs various activities (like walking, bending, moving arms) replicating humans, which also includes a sudden fall. Experimental results on robot performing various activities and standard human activity recognition databases show the efficacy of our proposed method. 

Title: Sim-to-Real Robot Learning from Pixels with Progressive Nets
Abstract:  Applying end-to-end learning to solve complex, interactive, pixel-driven control tasks on a robot is an unsolved problem. Deep Reinforcement Learning algorithms are too slow to achieve performance on a real robot, but their potential has been demonstrated in simulated environments. We propose using progressive networks to bridge the reality gap and transfer learned policies from simulation to the real world. The progressive net approach is a general framework that enables reuse of everything from low-level visual features to high-level policies for transfer to new tasks, enabling a compositional, yet simple, approach to building complex skills. We present an early demonstration of this approach with a number of experiments in the domain of robot manipulation that focus on bridging the reality gap. Unlike other proposed approaches, our real-world experiments demonstrate successful task learning from raw visual input on a fully actuated robot manipulator. Moreover, rather than relying on model-based trajectory optimisation, the task learning is accomplished using only deep reinforcement learning and sparse rewards. 

Title: Reinforcement co-Learning of Deep and Spiking Neural Networks for Energy-Efficient Mapless Navigation with Neuromorphic Hardware
Abstract:  Energy-efficient mapless navigation is crucial for mobile robots as they explore unknown environments with limited on-board resources. Although the recent deep reinforcement learning (DRL) approaches have been successfully applied to navigation, their high energy consumption limits their use in several robotic applications. Here, we propose a neuromorphic approach that combines the energy-efficiency of spiking neural networks with the optimality of DRL and benchmark it in learning control policies for mapless navigation. Our hybrid framework, spiking deep deterministic policy gradient (SDDPG), consists of a spiking actor network (SAN) and a deep critic network, where the two networks were trained jointly using gradient descent. The co-learning enabled synergistic information exchange between the two networks, allowing them to overcome each other's limitations through a shared representation learning. To evaluate our approach, we deployed the trained SAN on Intel's Loihi neuromorphic processor. When validated on simulated and real-world complex environments, our method on Loihi consumed 75 times less energy per inference as compared to DDPG on Jetson TX2, and also exhibited a higher rate of successful navigation to the goal, which ranged from 1% to 4.2% and depended on the forward-propagation timestep size. These results reinforce our ongoing efforts to design brain-inspired algorithms for controlling autonomous robots with neuromorphic hardware. 

Title: Augmenting Visual Place Recognition with Structural Cues
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose to augment image-based place recognition with structural cues. Specifically, these structural cues are obtained using structure-from-motion, such that no additional sensors are needed for place recognition. This is achieved by augmenting the 2D convolutional neural network (CNN) typically used for image-based place recognition with a 3D CNN that takes as input a voxel grid derived from the structure-from-motion point cloud. We evaluate different methods for fusing the 2D and 3D features and obtain best performance with global average pooling and simple concatenation. On the Oxford RobotCar dataset, the resulting descriptor exhibits superior recognition performance compared to descriptors extracted from only one of the input modalities, including state-of-the-art image-based descriptors. Especially at low descriptor dimensionalities, we outperform state-of-the-art descriptors by up to 90%. 

Title: DeepLocalization: Landmark-based Self-Localization with Deep Neural Networks
Abstract:  We address the problem of vehicle self-localization from multi-modal sensor information and a reference map. The map is generated off-line by extracting landmarks from the vehicle's field of view, while the measurements are collected similarly on the fly. Our goal is to determine the autonomous vehicle's pose from the landmark measurements and map landmarks. To learn this mapping, we propose DeepLocalization, a deep neural network that regresses the vehicle's translation and rotation parameters from unordered and dynamic input landmarks. The proposed network architecture is robust to changes of the dynamic environment and can cope with a small number of extracted landmarks. During the training process we rely on synthetically generated ground-truth. In our experiments, we evaluate two inference approaches in real-world scenarios. We show that DeepLocalization can be combined with regular GPS signals and filtering algorithms such as the extended Kalman filter. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art accuracy and is about ten times faster than the related work. 

Title: Driving with Style: Inverse Reinforcement Learning in General-Purpose Planning for Automated Driving
Abstract:  Behavior and motion planning play an important role in automated driving. Traditionally, behavior planners instruct local motion planners with predefined behaviors. Due to the high scene complexity in urban environments, unpredictable situations may occur in which behavior planners fail to match predefined behavior templates. Recently, general-purpose planners have been introduced, combining behavior and local motion planning. These general-purpose planners allow behavior-aware motion planning given a single reward function. However, two challenges arise: First, this function has to map a complex feature space into rewards. Second, the reward function has to be manually tuned by an expert. Manually tuning this reward function becomes a tedious task. In this paper, we propose an approach that relies on human driving demonstrations to automatically tune reward functions. This study offers important insights into the driving style optimization of general-purpose planners with maximum entropy inverse reinforcement learning. We evaluate our approach based on the expected value difference between learned and demonstrated policies. Furthermore, we compare the similarity of human driven trajectories with optimal policies of our planner under learned and expert-tuned reward functions. Our experiments show that we are able to learn reward functions exceeding the level of manual expert tuning without prior domain knowledge. 

Title: Learning Continuous 3D Reconstructions for Geometrically Aware Grasping
Abstract:  Deep learning has enabled remarkable improvements in grasp synthesis for previously unseen objects from partial object views. However, existing approaches lack the ability to explicitly reason about the full 3D geometry of the object when selecting a grasp, relying on indirect geometric reasoning derived when learning grasp success networks. This abandons explicit geometric reasoning, such as avoiding undesired robot object collisions. We propose to utilize a novel, learned 3D reconstruction to enable geometric awareness in a grasping system. We leverage the structure of the reconstruction network to learn a grasp success classifier which serves as the objective function for a continuous grasp optimization. We additionally explicitly constrain the optimization to avoid undesired contact, directly using the reconstruction. We examine the role of geometry in grasping both in the training of grasp metrics and through 96 robot grasping trials. Our results can be found on https://sites.google.com/view/reconstruction-grasp/. 

Title: Guiding the search in continuous state-action spaces by learning an action sampling distribution from off-target samples
Abstract:  In robotics, it is essential to be able to plan efficiently in high-dimensional continuous state-action spaces for long horizons. For such complex planning problems, unguided uniform sampling of actions until a path to a goal is found is hopelessly inefficient, and gradient-based approaches often fall short when the optimization manifold of a given problem is not smooth. In this paper we present an approach that guides the search of a state-space planner, such as A*, by learning an action-sampling distribution that can generalize across different instances of a planning problem. The motivation is that, unlike typical learning approaches for planning for continuous action space that estimate a policy, an estimated action sampler is more robust to error since it has a planner to fall back on. We use a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN), and address an important issue: search experience consists of a relatively large number of actions that are not on a solution path and a relatively small number of actions that actually are on a solution path. We introduce a new technique, based on an importance-ratio estimation method, for using samples from a non-target distribution to make GAN learning more data-efficient. We provide theoretical guarantees and empirical evaluation in three challenging continuous robot planning problems to illustrate the effectiveness of our algorithm. 

Title: Learning Synergies between Pushing and Grasping with Self-supervised Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Skilled robotic manipulation benefits from complex synergies between non-prehensile (e.g. pushing) and prehensile (e.g. grasping) actions: pushing can help rearrange cluttered objects to make space for arms and fingers; likewise, grasping can help displace objects to make pushing movements more precise and collision-free. In this work, we demonstrate that it is possible to discover and learn these synergies from scratch through model-free deep reinforcement learning. Our method involves training two fully convolutional networks that map from visual observations to actions: one infers the utility of pushes for a dense pixel-wise sampling of end effector orientations and locations, while the other does the same for grasping. Both networks are trained jointly in a Q-learning framework and are entirely self-supervised by trial and error, where rewards are provided from successful grasps. In this way, our policy learns pushing motions that enable future grasps, while learning grasps that can leverage past pushes. During picking experiments in both simulation and real-world scenarios, we find that our system quickly learns complex behaviors amid challenging cases of clutter, and achieves better grasping success rates and picking efficiencies than baseline alternatives after only a few hours of training. We further demonstrate that our method is capable of generalizing to novel objects. Qualitative results (videos), code, pre-trained models, and simulation environments are available at http://vpg.cs.princeton.edu 

Title: Conditional Driving from Natural Language Instructions
Abstract:  Widespread adoption of self-driving cars will depend not only on their safety but largely on their ability to interact with human users. Just like human drivers, self-driving cars will be expected to understand and safely follow natural-language directions that suddenly alter the pre-planned route according to user's preference or in presence of ambiguities, particularly in locations with poor or outdated map coverage. To this end, we propose a language-grounded driving agent implementing a hierarchical policy using recurrent layers and gated attention. The hierarchical approach enables us to reason both in terms of high-level language instructions describing long time horizons and low-level, complex, continuous state/action spaces required for real-time control of a self-driving car. We train our policy with conditional imitation learning from realistic language data collected from human drivers and navigators. Through quantitative and interactive experiments within the CARLA framework, we show that our model can successfully interpret language instructions and follow them safely, even when generalizing to previously unseen environments. Code and video are available at https://sites.google.com/view/language-grounded-driving. 

Title: Learning-based Model Predictive Control for Safe Exploration
Abstract:  Learning-based methods have been successful in solving complex control tasks without significant prior knowledge about the system. However, these methods typically do not provide any safety guarantees, which prevents their use in safety-critical, real-world applications. In this paper, we present a learning-based model predictive control scheme that can provide provable high-probability safety guarantees. To this end, we exploit regularity assumptions on the dynamics in terms of a Gaussian process prior to construct provably accurate confidence intervals on predicted trajectories. Unlike previous approaches, we do not assume that model uncertainties are independent. Based on these predictions, we guarantee that trajectories satisfy safety constraints. Moreover, we use a terminal set constraint to recursively guarantee the existence of safe control actions at every iteration. In our experiments, we show that the resulting algorithm can be used to safely and efficiently explore and learn about dynamic systems. 

Title: Tactile Mapping and Localization from High-Resolution Tactile Imprints
Abstract:  This work studies the problem of shape reconstruction and object localization using a vision-based tactile sensor, GelSlim. The main contributions are the recovery of local shapes from contact, an approach to reconstruct the tactile shape of objects from tactile imprints, and an accurate method for object localization of previously reconstructed objects. The algorithms can be applied to a large variety of 3D objects and provide accurate tactile feedback for in-hand manipulation. Results show that by exploiting the dense tactile information we can reconstruct the shape of objects with high accuracy and do on-line object identification and localization, opening the door to reactive manipulation guided by tactile sensing. We provide videos and supplemental information in the project's website http://web.mit.edu/mcube/research/tactile_localization.html. 

Title: Deep Learned Path Planning via Randomized Reward-Linked-Goals and Potential Space Applications
Abstract:  Space exploration missions have seen use of increasingly sophisticated robotic systems with ever more autonomy. Deep learning promises to take this even a step further, and has applications for high-level tasks, like path planning, as well as low-level tasks, like motion control, which are critical components for mission efficiency and success. Using deep reinforcement end-to-end learning with randomized reward function parameters during training, we teach a simulated 8 degree-of-freedom quadruped ant-like robot to travel anywhere within a perimeter, conducting path plan and motion control on a single neural network, without any system model or prior knowledge of the terrain or environment. Our approach also allows for user specified waypoints, which could translate well to either fully autonomous or semi-autonomous/teleoperated space applications that encounter delay times. We trained the agent using randomly generated waypoints linked to the reward function and passed waypoint coordinates as inputs to the neural network. Such applications show promise on a variety of space exploration robots, including high speed rovers for fast locomotion and legged cave robots for rough terrain. 

Title: Combining Benefits from Trajectory Optimization and Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Recent breakthroughs both in reinforcement learning and trajectory optimization have made significant advances towards real world robotic system deployment. Reinforcement learning (RL) can be applied to many problems without needing any modeling or intuition about the system, at the cost of high sample complexity and the inability to prove any metrics about the learned policies. Trajectory optimization (TO) on the other hand allows for stability and robustness analyses on generated motions and trajectories, but is only as good as the often over-simplified derived model, and may have prohibitively expensive computation times for real-time control. This paper seeks to combine the benefits from these two areas while mitigating their drawbacks by (1) decreasing RL sample complexity by using existing knowledge of the problem with optimal control, and (2) providing an upper bound estimate on the time-to-arrival of the combined learned-optimized policy, allowing online policy deployment at any point in the training process by using the TO as a worst-case scenario action. This method is evaluated for a car model, with applicability to any mobile robotic system. A video showing policy execution comparisons can be found at https://youtu.be/mv2xw83NyWU . 

Title: PIRVS: An Advanced Visual-Inertial SLAM System with Flexible Sensor Fusion and Hardware Co-Design
Abstract:  In this paper, we present the PerceptIn Robotics Vision System (PIRVS) system, a visual-inertial computing hardware with embedded simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithm. The PIRVS hardware is equipped with a multi-core processor, a global-shutter stereo camera, and an IMU with precise hardware synchronization. The PIRVS software features a novel and flexible sensor fusion approach to not only tightly integrate visual measurements with inertial measurements and also to loosely couple with additional sensor modalities. It runs in real-time on both PC and the PIRVS hardware. We perform a thorough evaluation of the proposed system using multiple public visual-inertial datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that our system reaches comparable accuracy of state-of-the-art visual-inertial algorithms on PC, while being more efficient on the PIRVS hardware. 

Title: Learning to Smooth and Fold Real Fabric Using Dense Object Descriptors Trained on Synthetic Color Images
Abstract:  Robotic fabric manipulation is challenging due to the infinite dimensional configuration space and complex dynamics. In this paper, we learn visual representations of deformable fabric by training dense object descriptors that capture correspondences across images of fabric in various configurations. The learned descriptors capture higher level geometric structure, facilitating design of explainable policies. We demonstrate that the learned representation facilitates multistep fabric smoothing and folding tasks on two real physical systems, the da Vinci surgical robot and the ABB YuMi given high level demonstrations from a supervisor. The system achieves a 78.8% average task success rate across six fabric manipulation tasks. See https://tinyurl.com/fabric-descriptors for supplementary material and videos. 

Title: 3D Convolution on RGB-D Point Clouds for Accurate Model-free Object Pose Estimation
Abstract:  The conventional pose estimation of a 3D object usually requires the knowledge of the 3D model of the object. Even with the recent development in convolutional neural networks (CNNs), a 3D model is often necessary in the final estimation. In this paper, we propose a two-stage pipeline that takes in raw colored point cloud data and estimates an object's translation and rotation by running 3D convolutions on voxels. The pipeline is simple yet highly accurate: translation error is reduced to the voxel resolution (around 1 cm) and rotation error is around 5 degrees. The pipeline is also put to actual robotic grasping tests where it achieves above 90% success rate for test objects. Another innovation is that a motion capture system is used to automatically label the point cloud samples which makes it possible to rapidly collect a large amount of highly accurate real data for training the neural networks. 

Title: Improving Movement Predictions of Traffic Actors in Bird's-Eye View Models using GANs and Differentiable Trajectory Rasterization
Abstract:  One of the most critical pieces of the self-driving puzzle is the task of predicting future movement of surrounding traffic actors, which allows the autonomous vehicle to safely and effectively plan its future route in a complex world. Recently, a number of algorithms have been proposed to address this important problem, spurred by a growing interest of researchers from both industry and academia. Methods based on top-down scene rasterization on one side and Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) on the other have shown to be particularly successful, obtaining state-of-the-art accuracies on the task of traffic movement prediction. In this paper we build upon these two directions and propose a raster-based conditional GAN architecture, powered by a novel differentiable rasterizer module at the input of the conditional discriminator that maps generated trajectories into the raster space in a differentiable manner. This simplifies the task for the discriminator as trajectories that are not scene-compliant are easier to discern, and allows the gradients to flow back forcing the generator to output better, more realistic trajectories. We evaluated the proposed method on a large-scale, real-world data set, showing that it outperforms state-of-the-art GAN-based baselines. 

Title: Closing the gap towards end-to-end autonomous vehicle system
Abstract:  Designing a driving policy for autonomous vehicles is a difficult task. Recent studies suggested an end-toend (E2E) training of a policy to predict car actuators directly from raw sensory inputs. It is appealing due to the ease of labeled data collection and since handcrafted features are avoided. Explicit drawbacks such as interpretability, safety enforcement and learning efficiency limit the practical application of the approach. In this paper, we amend the basic E2E architecture to address these shortcomings, while retaining the power of end-to-end learning. A key element in our proposed architecture is formulation of the learning problem as learning of trajectory. We also apply a Gaussian mixture model loss to contend with multi-modal data, and adopt a finance risk measure, conditional value at risk, to emphasize rare events. We analyze the effect of each concept and present driving performance in a highway scenario in the TORCS simulator. Video is available in this link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1JYNBZNOe_4 

Title: Vehicle Re-ID for Surround-view Camera System
Abstract:  The vehicle re-identification (ReID) plays a critical role in the perception system of autonomous driving, which attracts more and more attention in recent years. However, to our best knowledge, there is no existing complete solution for the surround-view system mounted on the vehicle. In this paper, we argue two main challenges in above scenario: i) In single camera view, it is difficult to recognize the same vehicle from the past image frames due to the fisheye distortion, occlusion, truncation, etc. ii) In multi-camera view, the appearance of the same vehicle varies greatly from different camera's viewpoints. Thus, we present an integral vehicle Re-ID solution to address these problems. Specifically, we propose a novel quality evaluation mechanism to balance the effect of tracking box's drift and target's consistency. Besides, we take advantage of the Re-ID network based on attention mechanism, then combined with a spatial constraint strategy to further boost the performance between different cameras. The experiments demonstrate that our solution achieves state-of-the-art accuracy while being real-time in practice. Besides, we will release the code and annotated fisheye dataset for the benefit of community. 

Title: Cross-Entropic Learning of a Machine for the Decision in a Partially Observable Universe
Abstract:  Revision of the paper previously entitled "Learning a Machine for the Decision in a Partially Observable Markov Universe" In this paper, we are interested in optimal decisions in a partially observable universe. Our approach is to directly approximate an optimal strategic tree depending on the observation. This approximation is made by means of a parameterized probabilistic law. A particular family of hidden Markov models, with input \emph{and} output, is considered as a model of policy. A method for optimizing the parameters of these HMMs is proposed and applied. This optimization is based on the cross-entropic principle for rare events simulation developed by Rubinstein. 

Title: Failure-Scenario Maker for Rule-Based Agent using Multi-agent Adversarial Reinforcement Learning and its Application to Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  We examine the problem of adversarial reinforcement learning for multi-agent domains including a rule-based agent. Rule-based algorithms are required in safety-critical applications for them to work properly in a wide range of situations. Hence, every effort is made to find failure scenarios during the development phase. However, as the software becomes complicated, finding failure cases becomes difficult. Especially in multi-agent domains, such as autonomous driving environments, it is much harder to find useful failure scenarios that help us improve the algorithm. We propose a method for efficiently finding failure scenarios; this method trains the adversarial agents using multi-agent reinforcement learning such that the tested rule-based agent fails. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method using a simple environment and autonomous driving simulator. 

Title: Target Detection, Tracking and Avoidance System for Low-cost UAVs using AI-Based Approaches
Abstract:  An onboard target detection, tracking and avoidance system has been developed in this paper, for low-cost UAV flight controllers using AI-Based approaches. The aim of the proposed system is that an ally UAV can either avoid or track an unexpected enemy UAV with a net to protect itself. In this point of view, a simple and robust target detection, tracking and avoidance system is designed. Two open-source tools were used for the aim: a state-of-the-art object detection technique called SSD and an API for MAVLink compatible systems called MAVSDK. The MAVSDK performs velocity control when a UAV is detected so that the manoeuvre is done simply and efficiently. The proposed system was verified with Software in the loop (SITL) and Hardware in the loop (HITL) simulators. The simplicity of this algorithm makes it innovative, and therefore it should be used in future applications needing robust performances with low-cost hardware such as delivery drone applications. 

Title: Deep Learning Features at Scale for Visual Place Recognition
Abstract:  The success of deep learning techniques in the computer vision domain has triggered a range of initial investigations into their utility for visual place recognition, all using generic features from networks that were trained for other types of recognition tasks. In this paper, we train, at large scale, two CNN architectures for the specific place recognition task and employ a multi-scale feature encoding method to generate condition- and viewpoint-invariant features. To enable this training to occur, we have developed a massive Specific PlacEs Dataset (SPED) with hundreds of examples of place appearance change at thousands of different places, as opposed to the semantic place type datasets currently available. This new dataset enables us to set up a training regime that interprets place recognition as a classification problem. We comprehensively evaluate our trained networks on several challenging benchmark place recognition datasets and demonstrate that they achieve an average 10% increase in performance over other place recognition algorithms and pre-trained CNNs. By analyzing the network responses and their differences from pre-trained networks, we provide insights into what a network learns when training for place recognition, and what these results signify for future research in this area. 

Title: Cross Scene Prediction via Modeling Dynamic Correlation using Latent Space Shared Auto-Encoders
Abstract:  This work addresses on the following problem: given a set of unsynchronized history observations of two scenes that are correlative on their dynamic changes, the purpose is to learn a cross-scene predictor, so that with the observation of one scene, a robot can onlinely predict the dynamic state of another. A method is proposed to solve the problem via modeling dynamic correlation using latent space shared auto-encoders. Assuming that the inherent correlation of scene dynamics can be represented by shared latent space, where a common latent state is reached if the observations of both scenes are at an approximate time, a learning model is developed by connecting two auto-encoders through the latent space, and a prediction model is built by concatenating the encoder of the input scene with the decoder of the target one. Simulation datasets are generated imitating the dynamic flows at two adjacent gates of a campus, where the dynamic changes are triggered by a common working and teaching schedule. Similar scenarios can also be found at successive intersections on a single road, gates of a subway station, etc. Accuracy of cross-scene prediction is examined at various conditions of scene correlation and pairwise observations. Potentials of the proposed method are demonstrated by comparing with conventional end-to-end methods and linear predictions. 

Title: Pairwise Decomposition of Image Sequences for Active Multi-View Recognition
Abstract:  A multi-view image sequence provides a much richer capacity for object recognition than from a single image. However, most existing solutions to multi-view recognition typically adopt hand-crafted, model-based geometric methods, which do not readily embrace recent trends in deep learning. We propose to bring Convolutional Neural Networks to generic multi-view recognition, by decomposing an image sequence into a set of image pairs, classifying each pair independently, and then learning an object classifier by weighting the contribution of each pair. This allows for recognition over arbitrary camera trajectories, without requiring explicit training over the potentially infinite number of camera paths and lengths. Building these pairwise relationships then naturally extends to the next-best-view problem in an active recognition framework. To achieve this, we train a second Convolutional Neural Network to map directly from an observed image to next viewpoint. Finally, we incorporate this into a trajectory optimisation task, whereby the best recognition confidence is sought for a given trajectory length. We present state-of-the-art results in both guided and unguided multi-view recognition on the ModelNet dataset, and show how our method can be used with depth images, greyscale images, or both. 

Title: Deep Phase Correlation for End-to-End Heterogeneous Sensor Measurements Matching
Abstract:  The crucial step for localization is to match the current observation to the map. When the two sensor modalities are significantly different, matching becomes challenging. In this paper, we present an end-to-end deep phase correlation network (DPCN) to match heterogeneous sensor measurements. In DPCN, the primary component is a differentiable correlation-based estimator that back-propagates the pose error to learnable feature extractors, which addresses the problem that there are no direct common features for supervision. Also, it eliminates the exhaustive evaluation in some previous methods, improving efficiency. With the interpretable modeling, the network is light-weighted and promising for better generalization. We evaluate the system on both the simulation data and Aero-Ground Dataset which consists of heterogeneous sensor images and aerial images acquired by satellites or aerial robots. The results show that our method is able to match the heterogeneous sensor measurements, outperforming the comparative traditional phase correlation and other learning-based methods. 

Title: Automatic Image Segmentation by Dynamic Region Merging
Abstract:  This paper addresses the automatic image segmentation problem in a region merging style. With an initially over-segmented image, in which the many regions (or super-pixels) with homogeneous color are detected, image segmentation is performed by iteratively merging the regions according to a statistical test. There are two essential issues in a region merging algorithm: order of merging and the stopping criterion. In the proposed algorithm, these two issues are solved by a novel predicate, which is defined by the sequential probability ratio test (SPRT) and the maximum likelihood criterion. Starting from an over-segmented image, neighboring regions are progressively merged if there is an evidence for merging according to this predicate. We show that the merging order follows the principle of dynamic programming. This formulates image segmentation as an inference problem, where the final segmentation is established based on the observed image. We also prove that the produced segmentation satisfies certain global properties. In addition, a faster algorithm is developed to accelerate the region merging process, which maintains a nearest neighbor graph in each iteration. Experiments on real natural images are conducted to demonstrate the performance of the proposed dynamic region merging algorithm. 

Title: SASO: Joint 3D Semantic-Instance Segmentation via Multi-scale Semantic Association and Salient Point Clustering Optimization
Abstract:  We propose a novel 3D point cloud segmentation framework named SASO, which jointly performs semantic and instance segmentation tasks. For semantic segmentation task, inspired by the inherent correlation among objects in spatial context, we propose a Multi-scale Semantic Association (MSA) module to explore the constructive effects of the semantic context information. For instance segmentation task, different from previous works that utilize clustering only in inference procedure, we propose a Salient Point Clustering Optimization (SPCO) module to introduce a clustering procedure into the training process and impel the network focusing on points that are difficult to be distinguished. In addition, because of the inherent structures of indoor scenes, the imbalance problem of the category distribution is rarely considered but severely limits the performance of 3D scene perception. To address this issue, we introduce an adaptive Water Filling Sampling (WFS) algorithm to balance the category distribution of training data. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on benchmark datasets in both semantic segmentation and instance segmentation tasks. 

Title: Neural Network Memory Architectures for Autonomous Robot Navigation
Abstract:  This paper highlights the significance of including memory structures in neural networks when the latter are used to learn perception-action loops for autonomous robot navigation. Traditional navigation approaches rely on global maps of the environment to overcome cul-de-sacs and plan feasible motions. Yet, maintaining an accurate global map may be challenging in real-world settings. A possible way to mitigate this limitation is to use learning techniques that forgo hand-engineered map representations and infer appropriate control responses directly from sensed information. An important but unexplored aspect of such approaches is the effect of memory on their performance. This work is a first thorough study of memory structures for deep-neural-network-based robot navigation, and offers novel tools to train such networks from supervision and quantify their ability to generalize to unseen scenarios. We analyze the separation and generalization abilities of feedforward, long short-term memory, and differentiable neural computer networks. We introduce a new method to evaluate the generalization ability by estimating the VC-dimension of networks with a final linear readout layer. We validate that the VC estimates are good predictors of actual test performance. The reported method can be applied to deep learning problems beyond robotics. 

Title: Goal-Aware Prediction: Learning to Model What Matters
Abstract:  Learned dynamics models combined with both planning and policy learning algorithms have shown promise in enabling artificial agents to learn to perform many diverse tasks with limited supervision. However, one of the fundamental challenges in using a learned forward dynamics model is the mismatch between the objective of the learned model (future state reconstruction), and that of the downstream planner or policy (completing a specified task). This issue is exacerbated by vision-based control tasks in diverse real-world environments, where the complexity of the real world dwarfs model capacity. In this paper, we propose to direct prediction towards task relevant information, enabling the model to be aware of the current task and encouraging it to only model relevant quantities of the state space, resulting in a learning objective that more closely matches the downstream task. Further, we do so in an entirely self-supervised manner, without the need for a reward function or image labels. We find that our method more effectively models the relevant parts of the scene conditioned on the goal, and as a result outperforms standard task-agnostic dynamics models and model-free reinforcement learning. 

Title: Deep Learning for Spacecraft Pose Estimation from Photorealistic Rendering
Abstract:  On-orbit proximity operations in space rendezvous, docking and debris removal require precise and robust 6D pose estimation under a wide range of lighting conditions and against highly textured background, i.e., the Earth. This paper investigates leveraging deep learning and photorealistic rendering for monocular pose estimation of known uncooperative spacecrafts. We first present a simulator built on Unreal Engine 4, named URSO, to generate labeled images of spacecrafts orbiting the Earth, which can be used to train and evaluate neural networks. Secondly, we propose a deep learning framework for pose estimation based on orientation soft classification, which allows modelling orientation ambiguity as a mixture of Gaussians. This framework was evaluated both on URSO datasets and the ESA pose estimation challenge. In this competition, our best model achieved 3rd place on the synthetic test set and 2nd place on the real test set. Moreover, our results show the impact of several architectural and training aspects, and we demonstrate qualitatively how models learned on URSO datasets can perform on real images from space. 

Title: Maximum Entropy Gain Exploration for Long Horizon Multi-goal Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  What goals should a multi-goal reinforcement learning agent pursue during training in long-horizon tasks? When the desired (test time) goal distribution is too distant to offer a useful learning signal, we argue that the agent should not pursue unobtainable goals. Instead, it should set its own intrinsic goals that maximize the entropy of the historical achieved goal distribution. We propose to optimize this objective by having the agent pursue past achieved goals in sparsely explored areas of the goal space, which focuses exploration on the frontier of the achievable goal set. We show that our strategy achieves an order of magnitude better sample efficiency than the prior state of the art on long-horizon multi-goal tasks including maze navigation and block stacking. 

Title: Robust Feature-Based Point Registration Using Directional Mixture Model
Abstract:  This paper presents a robust probabilistic point registration method for estimating the rigid transformation (i.e. rotation matrix and translation vector) between two pointcloud dataset. The method improves the robustness of point registration and consequently the robot localization in the presence of outliers in the pointclouds which always occurs due to occlusion, dynamic objects, and sensor errors. The framework models the point registration task based on directional statistics on a unit sphere. In particular, a Kent distribution mixture model is adopted and the process of point registration has been carried out in the two phases of Expectation-Maximization algorithm. The proposed method has been evaluated on the pointcloud dataset from LiDAR sensors in an indoor environment. 

Title: Curiosity-driven Exploration by Self-supervised Prediction
Abstract:  In many real-world scenarios, rewards extrinsic to the agent are extremely sparse, or absent altogether. In such cases, curiosity can serve as an intrinsic reward signal to enable the agent to explore its environment and learn skills that might be useful later in its life. We formulate curiosity as the error in an agent's ability to predict the consequence of its own actions in a visual feature space learned by a self-supervised inverse dynamics model. Our formulation scales to high-dimensional continuous state spaces like images, bypasses the difficulties of directly predicting pixels, and, critically, ignores the aspects of the environment that cannot affect the agent. The proposed approach is evaluated in two environments: VizDoom and Super Mario Bros. Three broad settings are investigated: 1) sparse extrinsic reward, where curiosity allows for far fewer interactions with the environment to reach the goal; 2) exploration with no extrinsic reward, where curiosity pushes the agent to explore more efficiently; and 3) generalization to unseen scenarios (e.g. new levels of the same game) where the knowledge gained from earlier experience helps the agent explore new places much faster than starting from scratch. Demo video and code available at https://pathak22.github.io/noreward-rl/ 

Title: Learning to Label Affordances from Simulated and Real Data
Abstract:  An autonomous robot should be able to evaluate the affordances that are offered by a given situation. Here we address this problem by designing a system that can densely predict affordances given only a single 2D RGB image. This is achieved with a convolutional neural network (ResNet), which we combine with refinement modules recently proposed for addressing semantic image segmentation. We define a novel cost function, which is able to handle (potentially multiple) affordances of objects and their parts in a pixel-wise manner even in the case of incomplete data. We perform qualitative as well as quantitative evaluations with simulated and real data assessing 15 different affordances. In general, we find that affordances, which are well-enough represented in the training data, are correctly recognized with a substantial fraction of correctly assigned pixels. Furthermore, we show that our model outperforms several baselines. Hence, this method can give clear action guidelines for a robot. 

Title: Self-Monitoring Navigation Agent via Auxiliary Progress Estimation
Abstract:  The Vision-and-Language Navigation (VLN) task entails an agent following navigational instruction in photo-realistic unknown environments. This challenging task demands that the agent be aware of which instruction was completed, which instruction is needed next, which way to go, and its navigation progress towards the goal. In this paper, we introduce a self-monitoring agent with two complementary components: (1) visual-textual co-grounding module to locate the instruction completed in the past, the instruction required for the next action, and the next moving direction from surrounding images and (2) progress monitor to ensure the grounded instruction correctly reflects the navigation progress. We test our self-monitoring agent on a standard benchmark and analyze our proposed approach through a series of ablation studies that elucidate the contributions of the primary components. Using our proposed method, we set the new state of the art by a significant margin (8% absolute increase in success rate on the unseen test set). Code is available at https://github.com/chihyaoma/selfmonitoring-agent . 

Title: IDDA: a large-scale multi-domain dataset for autonomous driving
Abstract:  Semantic segmentation is key in autonomous driving. Using deep visual learning architectures is not trivial in this context, because of the challenges in creating suitable large scale annotated datasets. This issue has been traditionally circumvented through the use of synthetic datasets, that have become a popular resource in this field. They have been released with the need to develop semantic segmentation algorithms able to close the visual domain shift between the training and test data. Although exacerbated by the use of artificial data, the problem is extremely relevant in this field even when training on real data. Indeed, weather conditions, viewpoint changes and variations in the city appearances can vary considerably from car to car, and even at test time for a single, specific vehicle. How to deal with domain adaptation in semantic segmentation, and how to leverage effectively several different data distributions (source domains) are important research questions in this field. To support work in this direction, this paper contributes a new large scale, synthetic dataset for semantic segmentation with more than 100 different source visual domains. The dataset has been created to explicitly address the challenges of domain shift between training and test data in various weather and view point conditions, in seven different city types. Extensive benchmark experiments assess the dataset, showcasing open challenges for the current state of the art. The dataset will be available at: https://idda-dataset.github.io/home/ . 

Title: Kaolin: A PyTorch Library for Accelerating 3D Deep Learning Research
Abstract:  We present Kaolin, a PyTorch library aiming to accelerate 3D deep learning research. Kaolin provides efficient implementations of differentiable 3D modules for use in deep learning systems. With functionality to load and preprocess several popular 3D datasets, and native functions to manipulate meshes, pointclouds, signed distance functions, and voxel grids, Kaolin mitigates the need to write wasteful boilerplate code. Kaolin packages together several differentiable graphics modules including rendering, lighting, shading, and view warping. Kaolin also supports an array of loss functions and evaluation metrics for seamless evaluation and provides visualization functionality to render the 3D results. Importantly, we curate a comprehensive model zoo comprising many state-of-the-art 3D deep learning architectures, to serve as a starting point for future research endeavours. Kaolin is available as open-source software at https://github.com/NVIDIAGameWorks/kaolin/. 

Title: Learning View and Target Invariant Visual Servoing for Navigation
Abstract:  The advances in deep reinforcement learning recently revived interest in data-driven learning based approaches to navigation. In this paper we propose to learn viewpoint invariant and target invariant visual servoing for local mobile robot navigation; given an initial view and the goal view or an image of a target, we train deep convolutional network controller to reach the desired goal. We present a new architecture for this task which rests on the ability of establishing correspondences between the initial and goal view and novel reward structure motivated by the traditional feedback control error. The advantage of the proposed model is that it does not require calibration and depth information and achieves robust visual servoing in a variety of environments and targets without any parameter fine tuning. We present comprehensive evaluation of the approach and comparison with other deep learning architectures as well as classical visual servoing methods in visually realistic simulation environment. The presented model overcomes the brittleness of classical visual servoing based methods and achieves significantly higher generalization capability compared to the previous learning approaches. 

Title: NEMO: Future Object Localization Using Noisy Ego Priors
Abstract:  Predicting the future trajectory of agents from visual observations is an important problem for realization of safe and effective navigation of autonomous systems in dynamic environments. This paper focuses on two important aspects of future trajectory forecast which are particularly relevant for mobile platforms: 1) modeling uncertainty of the predictions, particularly from egocentric views, where uncertainty in the interactive reactions and behaviors of other agents must consider the uncertainty in the ego-motion, and 2) modeling multi-modality nature of the problem, which are particularly prevalent at junctions in urban traffic scenes. To address these problems in a unified approach, we propose NEMO (Noisy Ego MOtion priors for future object localization) for future forecast of agents in the egocentric view. In the proposed approach, a predictive distribution of future forecast is jointly modeled with the uncertainty of predictions. For this, we divide the problem into two tasks: future ego-motion prediction and future object localization. We first model the multi-modal distribution of future ego-motion with uncertainty estimates. The resulting distribution of ego-behavior is used to sample multiple modes of future ego-motion. Then, each modality is used as a prior to understand the interactions between the ego-vehicle and target agent. We predict the multi-modal future locations of the target from individual modes of the ego-vehicle while modeling the uncertainty of the target's behavior. To this end, we extensively evaluate the proposed framework using the publicly available benchmark dataset (HEV-I) supplemented with odometry data from an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU). 

Title: Learning visual policies for building 3D shape categories
Abstract:  Manipulation and assembly tasks require non-trivial planning of actions depending on the environment and the final goal. Previous work in this domain often assembles particular instances of objects from known sets of primitives. In contrast, we here aim to handle varying sets of primitives and to construct different objects of the same shape category. Given a single object instance of a category, e.g. an arch, and a binary shape classifier, we learn a visual policy to assemble other instances of the same category. In particular, we propose a disassembly procedure and learn a state policy that discovers new object instances and their assembly plans in state space. We then render simulated states in the observation space and learn a heatmap representation to predict alternative actions from a given input image. To validate our approach, we first demonstrate its efficiency for building object categories in state space. We then show the success of our visual policies for building arches from different primitives. Moreover, we demonstrate (i) the reactive ability of our method to re-assemble objects using additional primitives and (ii) the robust performance of our policy for unseen primitives resembling building blocks used during training. Our visual assembly policies are trained with no real images and reach up to 95% success rate when evaluated on a real robot. 

Title: Meshed Up: Learnt Error Correction in 3D Reconstructions
Abstract:  Dense reconstructions often contain errors that prior work has so far minimised using high quality sensors and regularising the output. Nevertheless, errors still persist. This paper proposes a machine learning technique to identify errors in three dimensional (3D) meshes. Beyond simply identifying errors, our method quantifies both the magnitude and the direction of depth estimate errors when viewing the scene. This enables us to improve the reconstruction accuracy. We train a suitably deep network architecture with two 3D meshes: a high-quality laser reconstruction, and a lower quality stereo image reconstruction. The network predicts the amount of error in the lower quality reconstruction with respect to the high-quality one, having only view the former through its input. We evaluate our approach by correcting two-dimensional (2D) inverse-depth images extracted from the 3D model, and show that our method improves the quality of these depth reconstructions by up to a relative 10% RMSE. 

Title: A novel plasticity rule can explain the development of sensorimotor intelligence
Abstract:  Grounding autonomous behavior in the nervous system is a fundamental challenge for neuroscience. In particular, the self-organized behavioral development provides more questions than answers. Are there special functional units for curiosity, motivation, and creativity? This paper argues that these features can be grounded in synaptic plasticity itself, without requiring any higher level constructs. We propose differential extrinsic plasticity (DEP) as a new synaptic rule for self-learning systems and apply it to a number of complex robotic systems as a test case. Without specifying any purpose or goal, seemingly purposeful and adaptive behavior is developed, displaying a certain level of sensorimotor intelligence. These surprising results require no system specific modifications of the DEP rule but arise rather from the underlying mechanism of spontaneous symmetry breaking due to the tight brain-body-environment coupling. The new synaptic rule is biologically plausible and it would be an interesting target for a neurobiolocal investigation. We also argue that this neuronal mechanism may have been a catalyst in natural evolution. 

Title: Parameter Sharing Reinforcement Learning Architecture for Multi Agent Driving Behaviors
Abstract:  Multi-agent learning provides a potential framework for learning and simulating traffic behaviors. This paper proposes a novel architecture to learn multiple driving behaviors in a traffic scenario. The proposed architecture can learn multiple behaviors independently as well as simultaneously. We take advantage of the homogeneity of agents and learn in a parameter sharing paradigm. To further speed up the training process asynchronous updates are employed into the architecture. While learning different behaviors simultaneously, the given framework was also able to learn cooperation between the agents, without any explicit communication. We applied this framework to learn two important behaviors in driving: 1) Lane-Keeping and 2) Over-Taking. Results indicate faster convergence and learning of a more generic behavior, that is scalable to any number of agents. When compared the results with existing approaches, our results indicate equal and even better performance in some cases. 

Title: Sequential Adversarial Learning for Self-Supervised Deep Visual Odometry
Abstract:  We propose a self-supervised learning framework for visual odometry (VO) that incorporates correlation of consecutive frames and takes advantage of adversarial learning. Previous methods tackle self-supervised VO as a local structure from motion (SfM) problem that recovers depth from single image and relative poses from image pairs by minimizing photometric loss between warped and captured images. As single-view depth estimation is an ill-posed problem, and photometric loss is incapable of discriminating distortion artifacts of warped images, the estimated depth is vague and pose is inaccurate. In contrast to previous methods, our framework learns a compact representation of frame-to-frame correlation, which is updated by incorporating sequential information. The updated representation is used for depth estimation. Besides, we tackle VO as a self-supervised image generation task and take advantage of Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN). The generator learns to estimate depth and pose to generate a warped target image. The discriminator evaluates the quality of generated image with high-level structural perception that overcomes the problem of pixel-wise loss in previous methods. Experiments on KITTI and Cityscapes datasets show that our method obtains more accurate depth with details preserved and predicted pose outperforms state-of-the-art self-supervised methods significantly. 

Title: Accurate Vision-based Manipulation through Contact Reasoning
Abstract:  Planning contact interactions is one of the core challenges of many robotic tasks. Optimizing contact locations while taking dynamics into account is computationally costly and, in environments that are only partially observable, executing contact-based tasks often suffers from low accuracy. We present an approach that addresses these two challenges for the problem of vision-based manipulation. First, we propose to disentangle contact from motion optimization. Thereby, we improve planning efficiency by focusing computation on promising contact locations. Second, we use a hybrid approach for perception and state estimation that combines neural networks with a physically meaningful state representation. In simulation and real-world experiments on the task of planar pushing, we show that our method is more efficient and achieves a higher manipulation accuracy than previous vision-based approaches. 

Title: Lidar based Detection and Classification of Pedestrians and Vehicles Using Machine Learning Methods
Abstract:  The goal of this paper is to classify objects mapped by LiDAR sensor into different classes such as vehicles, pedestrians and bikers. Utilizing a LiDAR-based object detector and Neural Networks-based classifier, a novel real-time object detection is presented essentially with respect to aid self-driving vehicles in recognizing and classifying other objects encountered in the course of driving and proceed accordingly. We discuss our work using machine learning methods to tackle a common high-level problem found in machine learning applications for self-driving cars: the classification of pointcloud data obtained from a 3D LiDAR sensor. 

Title: Learning Variable Impedance Control for Contact Sensitive Tasks
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning algorithms have shown great success in solving different problems ranging from playing video games to robotics. However, they struggle to solve delicate robotic problems, especially those involving contact interactions. Though in principle a policy directly outputting joint torques should be able to learn to perform these tasks, in practice we see that it has difficulty to robustly solve the problem without any given structure in the action space. In this paper, we investigate how the choice of action space can give robust performance in presence of contact uncertainties. We propose learning a policy giving as output impedance and desired position in joint space and compare the performance of that approach to torque and position control under different contact uncertainties. Furthermore, we propose an additional reward term designed to regularize these variable impedance control policies, giving them interpretability and facilitating their transfer to real systems. We present extensive experiments in simulation of both floating and fixed-base systems in tasks involving contact uncertainties, as well as results for running the learned policies on a real system. 

Title: An Intelligent Safety System for Human-Centered Semi-Autonomous Vehicles
Abstract:  Nowadays, automobile manufacturers make efforts to develop ways to make cars fully safe. Monitoring driver's actions by computer vision techniques to detect driving mistakes in real-time and then planning for autonomous driving to avoid vehicle collisions is one of the most important issues that has been investigated in the machine vision and Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS). The main goal of this study is to prevent accidents caused by fatigue, drowsiness, and driver distraction. To avoid these incidents, this paper proposes an integrated safety system that continuously monitors the driver's attention and vehicle surroundings, and finally decides whether the actual steering control status is safe or not. For this purpose, we equipped an ordinary car called FARAZ with a vision system consisting of four mounted cameras along with a universal car tool for communicating with surrounding factory-installed sensors and other car systems, and sending commands to actuators. The proposed system leverages a scene understanding pipeline using deep convolutional encoder-decoder networks and a driver state detection pipeline. We have been identifying and assessing domestic capabilities for the development of technologies specifically of the ordinary vehicles in order to manufacture smart cars and eke providing an intelligent system to increase safety and to assist the driver in various conditions/situations. 

Title: Vision-based Navigation with Language-based Assistance via Imitation Learning with Indirect Intervention
Abstract:  We present Vision-based Navigation with Language-based Assistance (VNLA), a grounded vision-language task where an agent with visual perception is guided via language to find objects in photorealistic indoor environments. The task emulates a real-world scenario in that (a) the requester may not know how to navigate to the target objects and thus makes requests by only specifying high-level end-goals, and (b) the agent is capable of sensing when it is lost and querying an advisor, who is more qualified at the task, to obtain language subgoals to make progress. To model language-based assistance, we develop a general framework termed Imitation Learning with Indirect Intervention (I3L), and propose a solution that is effective on the VNLA task. Empirical results show that this approach significantly improves the success rate of the learning agent over other baselines in both seen and unseen environments. Our code and data are publicly available at https://github.com/debadeepta/vnla . 

Title: Machine Learning in Appearance-based Robot Self-localization
Abstract:  An appearance-based robot self-localization problem is considered in the machine learning framework. The appearance space is composed of all possible images, which can be captured by a robot's visual system under all robot localizations. Using recent manifold learning and deep learning techniques, we propose a new geometrically motivated solution based on training data consisting of a finite set of images captured in known locations of the robot. The solution includes estimation of the robot localization mapping from the appearance space to the robot localization space, as well as estimation of the inverse mapping for modeling visual image features. The latter allows solving the robot localization problem as the Kalman filtering problem. 

Title: Reinforcement Learning-Enabled Decision-Making Strategies for a Vehicle-Cyber-Physical-System in Connected Environment
Abstract:  As a typical vehicle-cyber-physical-system (V-CPS), connected automated vehicles attracted more and more attention in recent years. This paper focuses on discussing the decision-making (DM) strategy for autonomous vehicles in a connected environment. First, the highway DM problem is formulated, wherein the vehicles can exchange information via wireless networking. Then, two classical reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms, Q-learning and Dyna, are leveraged to derive the DM strategies in a predefined driving scenario. Finally, the control performance of the derived DM policies in safety and efficiency is analyzed. Furthermore, the inherent differences of the RL algorithms are embodied and discussed in DM strategies. 

Title: Using Synthetic Data and Deep Networks to Recognize Primitive Shapes for Object Grasping
Abstract:  A segmentation-based architecture is proposed to decompose objects into multiple primitive shapes from monocular depth input for robotic manipulation. The backbone deep network is trained on synthetic data with 6 classes of primitive shapes generated by a simulation engine. Each primitive shape is designed with parametrized grasp families, permitting the pipeline to identify multiple grasp candidates per shape primitive region. The grasps are priority ordered via proposed ranking algorithm, with the first feasible one chosen for execution. On task-free grasping of individual objects, the method achieves a 94% success rate. On task-oriented grasping, it achieves a 76% success rate. Overall, the method supports the hypothesis that shape primitives can support task-free and task-relevant grasp prediction. 

Title: Context-Specific Validation of Data-Driven Models
Abstract:  With an increasing use of data-driven models to control robotic systems, it has become important to develop a methodology for validating such models before they can be deployed to design a controller for the actual system. Specifically, it must be ensured that the controller designed for a learned model would perform as expected on the actual physical system. We propose a context-specific validation framework to quantify the quality of a learned model based on a distance measure between the closed-loop actual system and the learned model. We then propose an active sampling scheme to compute a probabilistic upper bound on this distance in a sample-efficient manner. The proposed framework validates the learned model against only those behaviors of the system that are relevant for the purpose for which we intend to use this model, and does not require any a priori knowledge of the system dynamics. Several simulations illustrate the practicality of the proposed framework for validating the models of real-world systems, and consequently, for controller synthesis. 

Title: Automatic Construction of Real-World Datasets for 3D Object Localization using Two Cameras
Abstract:  Unlike classification, position labels cannot be assigned manually by humans. For this reason, generating supervision for precise object localization is a hard task. This paper details a method to create large datasets for 3D object localization, with real world images, using an industrial robot to generate position labels. By knowledge of the geometry of the robot, we are able to automatically synchronize the images of the two cameras and the object 3D position. We applied it to generate a screw-driver localization dataset with stereo images, using a KUKA LBR iiwa robot. This dataset could then be used to train a CNN regressor to learn end-to-end stereo object localization from a set of two standard uncalibrated cameras. 

Title: Harnessing Reinforcement Learning for Neural Motion Planning
Abstract:  Motion planning is an essential component in most of today's robotic applications. In this work, we consider the learning setting, where a set of solved motion planning problems is used to improve the efficiency of motion planning on different, yet similar problems. This setting is important in applications with rapidly changing environments such as in e-commerce, among others. We investigate a general deep learning based approach, where a neural network is trained to map an image of the domain, the current robot state, and a goal robot state to the next robot state in the plan. We focus on the learning algorithm, and compare supervised learning methods with reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms. We first establish that supervised learning approaches are inferior in their accuracy due to insufficient data on the boundary of the obstacles, an issue that RL methods mitigate by actively exploring the domain. We then propose a modification of the popular DDPG RL algorithm that is tailored to motion planning domains, by exploiting the known model in the problem and the set of solved plans in the data. We show that our algorithm, dubbed DDPG-MP, significantly improves the accuracy of the learned motion planning policy. Finally, we show that given enough training data, our method can plan significantly faster on novel domains than off-the-shelf sampling based motion planners. Results of our experiments are shown in https://youtu.be/wHQ4Y4mBRb8. 

Title: Towards Adaptive Training of Agent-based Sparring Partners for Fighter Pilots
Abstract:  A key requirement for the current generation of artificial decision-makers is that they should adapt well to changes in unexpected situations. This paper addresses the situation in which an AI for aerial dog fighting, with tunable parameters that govern its behavior, must optimize behavior with respect to an objective function that is evaluated and learned through simulations. Bayesian optimization with a Gaussian Process surrogate is used as the method for investigating the objective function. One key benefit is that during optimization, the Gaussian Process learns a global estimate of the true objective function, with predicted outcomes and a statistical measure of confidence in areas that haven't been investigated yet. Having a model of the objective function is important for being able to understand possible outcomes in the decision space; for example this is crucial for training and providing feedback to human pilots. However, standard Bayesian optimization does not perform consistently or provide an accurate Gaussian Process surrogate function for highly volatile objective functions. We treat these problems by introducing a novel sampling technique called Hybrid Repeat/Multi-point Sampling. This technique gives the AI ability to learn optimum behaviors in a highly uncertain environment. More importantly, it not only improves the reliability of the optimization, but also creates a better model of the entire objective surface. With this improved model the agent is equipped to more accurately/efficiently predict performance in unexplored scenarios. 

Title: Multi-Agent Manipulation via Locomotion using Hierarchical Sim2Real
Abstract:  Manipulation and locomotion are closely related problems that are often studied in isolation. In this work, we study the problem of coordinating multiple mobile agents to exhibit manipulation behaviors using a reinforcement learning (RL) approach. Our method hinges on the use of hierarchical sim2real -- a simulated environment is used to learn low-level goal-reaching skills, which are then used as the action space for a high-level RL controller, also trained in simulation. The full hierarchical policy is then transferred to the real world in a zero-shot fashion. The application of domain randomization during training enables the learned behaviors to generalize to real-world settings, while the use of hierarchy provides a modular paradigm for learning and transferring increasingly complex behaviors. We evaluate our method on a number of real-world tasks, including coordinated object manipulation in a multi-agent setting. See videos at https://sites.google.com/view/manipulation-via-locomotion 

Title: Vehicle Detection from 3D Lidar Using Fully Convolutional Network
Abstract:  Convolutional network techniques have recently achieved great success in vision based detection tasks. This paper introduces the recent development of our research on transplanting the fully convolutional network technique to the detection tasks on 3D range scan data. Specifically, the scenario is set as the vehicle detection task from the range data of Velodyne 64E lidar. We proposes to present the data in a 2D point map and use a single 2D end-to-end fully convolutional network to predict the objectness confidence and the bounding boxes simultaneously. By carefully design the bounding box encoding, it is able to predict full 3D bounding boxes even using a 2D convolutional network. Experiments on the KITTI dataset shows the state-of-the-art performance of the proposed method. 

Title: Learning Hand-Eye Coordination for Robotic Grasping with Deep Learning and Large-Scale Data Collection
Abstract:  We describe a learning-based approach to hand-eye coordination for robotic grasping from monocular images. To learn hand-eye coordination for grasping, we trained a large convolutional neural network to predict the probability that task-space motion of the gripper will result in successful grasps, using only monocular camera images and independently of camera calibration or the current robot pose. This requires the network to observe the spatial relationship between the gripper and objects in the scene, thus learning hand-eye coordination. We then use this network to servo the gripper in real time to achieve successful grasps. To train our network, we collected over 800,000 grasp attempts over the course of two months, using between 6 and 14 robotic manipulators at any given time, with differences in camera placement and hardware. Our experimental evaluation demonstrates that our method achieves effective real-time control, can successfully grasp novel objects, and corrects mistakes by continuous servoing. 

Title: Learning 6-DOF Grasping Interaction via Deep Geometry-aware 3D Representations
Abstract:  This paper focuses on the problem of learning 6-DOF grasping with a parallel jaw gripper in simulation. We propose the notion of a geometry-aware representation in grasping based on the assumption that knowledge of 3D geometry is at the heart of interaction. Our key idea is constraining and regularizing grasping interaction learning through 3D geometry prediction. Specifically, we formulate the learning of deep geometry-aware grasping model in two steps: First, we learn to build mental geometry-aware representation by reconstructing the scene (i.e., 3D occupancy grid) from RGBD input via generative 3D shape modeling. Second, we learn to predict grasping outcome with its internal geometry-aware representation. The learned outcome prediction model is used to sequentially propose grasping solutions via analysis-by-synthesis optimization. Our contributions are fourfold: (1) To best of our knowledge, we are presenting for the first time a method to learn a 6-DOF grasping net from RGBD input; (2) We build a grasping dataset from demonstrations in virtual reality with rich sensory and interaction annotations. This dataset includes 101 everyday objects spread across 7 categories, additionally, we propose a data augmentation strategy for effective learning; (3) We demonstrate that the learned geometry-aware representation leads to about 10 percent relative performance improvement over the baseline CNN on grasping objects from our dataset. (4) We further demonstrate that the model generalizes to novel viewpoints and object instances. 

Title: Understanding Contexts Inside Robot and Human Manipulation Tasks through a Vision-Language Model and Ontology System in a Video Stream
Abstract:  Manipulation tasks in daily life, such as pouring water, unfold intentionally under specialized manipulation contexts. Being able to process contextual knowledge in these Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) over time can help us understand manipulation intentions, which are essential for an intelligent robot to transition smoothly between various manipulation actions. In this paper, to model the intended concepts of manipulation, we present a vision dataset under a strictly constrained knowledge domain for both robot and human manipulations, where manipulation concepts and relations are stored by an ontology system in a taxonomic manner. Furthermore, we propose a scheme to generate a combination of visual attentions and an evolving knowledge graph filled with commonsense knowledge. Our scheme works with real-world camera streams and fuses an attention-based Vision-Language model with the ontology system. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed scheme can successfully represent the evolution of an intended object manipulation procedure for both robots and humans. The proposed scheme allows the robot to mimic human-like intentional behaviors by watching real-time videos. We aim to develop this scheme further for real-world robot intelligence in Human-Robot Interaction. 

Title: On Policy Learning Robust to Irreversible Events: An Application to Robotic In-Hand Manipulation
Abstract:  In this letter, we present an approach for learning in-hand manipulation skills with a low-cost, underactuated prosthetic hand in the presence of irreversible events. Our approach combines reinforcement learning based on visual perception with low-level reactive control based on tactile perception, which aims to avoid slipping. The objective of the reinforcement learning level consists not only in fulfilling the in-hand manipulation goal, but also in minimizing the intervention of the tactile reactive control. This way, the occurrence of object slipping during the learning procedure, which we consider an irreversible event, is significantly reduced. When an irreversible event occurs, the learning process is considered failed. We show the performance in two tasks, which consist in reorienting a cup and a bottle only using the fingers. The experimental results show that the proposed architecture allows reaching the goal in the Cartesian space and reduces significantly the occurrence of object slipping during the learning procedure. Moreover, without the proposed synergy between reactive control and reinforcement learning it was not possible to avoid irreversible events and, therefore, to learn the task. 

Title: KeyPose: Multi-View 3D Labeling and Keypoint Estimation for Transparent Objects
Abstract:  Estimating the 3D pose of desktop objects is crucial for applications such as robotic manipulation. Many existing approaches to this problem require a depth map of the object for both training and prediction, which restricts them to opaque, lambertian objects that produce good returns in an RGBD sensor. In this paper we forgo using a depth sensor in favor of raw stereo input. We address two problems: first, we establish an easy method for capturing and labeling 3D keypoints on desktop objects with an RGB camera; and second, we develop a deep neural network, called $KeyPose$, that learns to accurately predict object poses using 3D keypoints, from stereo input, and works even for transparent objects. To evaluate the performance of our method, we create a dataset of 15 clear objects in five classes, with 48K 3D-keypoint labeled images. We train both instance and category models, and show generalization to new textures, poses, and objects. KeyPose surpasses state-of-the-art performance in 3D pose estimation on this dataset by factors of 1.5 to 3.5, even in cases where the competing method is provided with ground-truth depth. Stereo input is essential for this performance as it improves results compared to using monocular input by a factor of 2. We will release a public version of the data capture and labeling pipeline, the transparent object database, and the KeyPose models and evaluation code. Project website: https://sites.google.com/corp/view/keypose. 

Title: Monocular Object and Plane SLAM in Structured Environments
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a monocular Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) algorithm using high-level object and plane landmarks. The built map is denser, more compact and semantic meaningful compared to feature point based SLAM. We first propose a high order graphical model to jointly infer the 3D object and layout planes from single images considering occlusions and semantic constraints. The extracted objects and planes are further optimized with camera poses in a unified SLAM framework. Objects and planes can provide more semantic constraints such as Manhattan plane and object supporting relationships compared to points. Experiments on various public and collected datasets including ICL NUIM and TUM Mono show that our algorithm can improve camera localization accuracy compared to state-of-the-art SLAM especially when there is no loop closure, and also generate dense maps robustly in many structured environments. 

Title: Improving benchmarks for autonomous vehicles testing using synthetically generated images
Abstract:  Nowadays autonomous technologies are a very heavily explored area and particularly computer vision as the main component of vehicle perception. The quality of the whole vision system based on neural networks relies on the dataset it was trained on. It is extremely difficult to find traffic sign datasets from most of the counties of the world. Meaning autonomous vehicle from the USA will not be able to drive though Lithuania recognizing all road signs on the way. In this paper, we propose a solution on how to update model using a small dataset from the country vehicle will be used in. It is important to mention that is not panacea, rather small upgrade which can boost autonomous car development in countries with limited data access. We achieved about 10 percent quality raise and expect even better results during future experiments. 

Title: Data Driven Prediction Architecture for Autonomous Driving and its Application on Apollo Platform
Abstract:  Autonomous Driving vehicles (ADV) are on road with large scales. For safe and efficient operations, ADVs must be able to predict the future states and iterative with road entities in complex, real-world driving scenarios. How to migrate a well-trained prediction model from one geo-fenced area to another is essential in scaling the ADV operation and is difficult most of the time since the terrains, traffic rules, entities distributions, driving/walking patterns would be largely different in different geo-fenced operation areas. In this paper, we introduce a highly automated learning-based prediction model pipeline, which has been deployed on Baidu Apollo self-driving platform, to support different prediction learning sub-modules' data annotation, feature extraction, model training/tuning and deployment. This pipeline is completely automatic without any human intervention and shows an up to 400\% efficiency increase in parameter tuning, when deployed at scale in different scenarios across nations. 

Title: Gaining a Sense of Touch. Physical Parameters Estimation using a Soft Gripper and Neural Networks
Abstract:  Soft grippers are gaining significant attention in the manipulation of elastic objects, where it is required to handle soft and unstructured objects which are vulnerable to deformations. A crucial problem is to estimate the physical parameters of a squeezed object to adjust the manipulation procedure, which is considered as a significant challenge. To the best of the authors' knowledge, there is not enough research on physical parameters estimation using deep learning algorithms on measurements from direct interaction with objects using robotic grippers. In our work, we proposed a trainable system for the regression of a stiffness coefficient and provided extensive experiments using the physics simulator environment. Moreover, we prepared the application that works in the real-world scenario. Our system can reliably estimate the stiffness of an object using the Yale OpenHand soft gripper based on readings from Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs) attached to its fingers. Additionally, during the experiments, we prepared three datasets of signals gathered while squeezing objects -- two created in the simulation environment and one composed of real data. 

Title: Are we done with object recognition? The iCub robot's perspective
Abstract:  We report on an extensive study of the benefits and limitations of current deep learning approaches to object recognition in robot vision scenarios, introducing a novel dataset used for our investigation. To avoid the biases in currently available datasets, we consider a natural human-robot interaction setting to design a data-acquisition protocol for visual object recognition on the iCub humanoid robot. Analyzing the performance of off-the-shelf models trained off-line on large-scale image retrieval datasets, we show the necessity for knowledge transfer. We evaluate different ways in which this last step can be done, and identify the major bottlenecks affecting robotic scenarios. By studying both object categorization and identification problems, we highlight key differences between object recognition in robotics applications and in image retrieval tasks, for which the considered deep learning approaches have been originally designed. In a nutshell, our results confirm the remarkable improvements yield by deep learning in this setting, while pointing to specific open challenges that need be addressed for seamless deployment in robotics. 

Title: Table-Top Scene Analysis Using Knowledge-Supervised MCMC
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a probabilistic method to generate abstract scene graphs for table-top scenes from 6D object pose estimates. We explicitly make use of task-specfic context knowledge by encoding this knowledge as descriptive rules in Markov logic networks. Our approach to generate scene graphs is probabilistic: Uncertainty in the object poses is addressed by a probabilistic sensor model that is embedded in a data driven MCMC process. We apply Markov logic inference to reason about hidden objects and to detect false estimates of object poses. The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated and evaluated in real world experiments. 

Title: The H3D Dataset for Full-Surround 3D Multi-Object Detection and Tracking in Crowded Urban Scenes
Abstract:  3D multi-object detection and tracking are crucial for traffic scene understanding. However, the community pays less attention to these areas due to the lack of a standardized benchmark dataset to advance the field. Moreover, existing datasets (e.g., KITTI) do not provide sufficient data and labels to tackle challenging scenes where highly interactive and occluded traffic participants are present. To address the issues, we present the Honda Research Institute 3D Dataset (H3D), a large-scale full-surround 3D multi-object detection and tracking dataset collected using a 3D LiDAR scanner. H3D comprises of 160 crowded and highly interactive traffic scenes with a total of 1 million labeled instances in 27,721 frames. With unique dataset size, rich annotations, and complex scenes, H3D is gathered to stimulate research on full-surround 3D multi-object detection and tracking. To effectively and efficiently annotate a large-scale 3D point cloud dataset, we propose a labeling methodology to speed up the overall annotation cycle. A standardized benchmark is created to evaluate full-surround 3D multi-object detection and tracking algorithms. 3D object detection and tracking algorithms are trained and tested on H3D. Finally, sources of errors are discussed for the development of future algorithms. 

Title: ClusterVO: Clustering Moving Instances and Estimating Visual Odometry for Self and Surroundings
Abstract:  We present ClusterVO, a stereo Visual Odometry which simultaneously clusters and estimates the motion of both ego and surrounding rigid clusters/objects. Unlike previous solutions relying on batch input or imposing priors on scene structure or dynamic object models, ClusterVO is online, general and thus can be used in various scenarios including indoor scene understanding and autonomous driving. At the core of our system lies a multi-level probabilistic association mechanism and a heterogeneous Conditional Random Field (CRF) clustering approach combining semantic, spatial and motion information to jointly infer cluster segmentations online for every frame. The poses of camera and dynamic objects are instantly solved through a sliding-window optimization. Our system is evaluated on Oxford Multimotion and KITTI dataset both quantitatively and qualitatively, reaching comparable results to state-of-the-art solutions on both odometry and dynamic trajectory recovery. 

Title: Autonomous Grounding of Visual Field Experience through Sensorimotor Prediction
Abstract:  In a developmental framework, autonomous robots need to explore the world and learn how to interact with it. Without an a priori model of the system, this opens the challenging problem of having robots master their interface with the world: how to perceive their environment using their sensors, and how to act in it using their motors. The sensorimotor approach of perception claims that a naive agent can learn to master this interface by capturing regularities in the way its actions transform its sensory inputs. In this paper, we apply such an approach to the discovery and mastery of the visual field associated with a visual sensor. A computational model is formalized and applied to a simulated system to illustrate the approach. 

Title: Intention-aware Residual Bidirectional LSTM for Long-term Pedestrian Trajectory Prediction
Abstract:  Trajectory prediction is one of the key capabilities for robots to safely navigate and interact with pedestrians. Critical insights from human intention and behavioral patterns need to be effectively integrated into long-term pedestrian behavior forecasting. We present a novel intention-aware motion prediction framework, which consists of a Residual Bidirectional LSTM (ReBiL) and a mutable intention filter. Instead of learning step-wise displacement, we propose learning offset to warp a nominal intention-aware linear prediction, giving residual learning a physical intuition. Our intention filter is inspired by genetic algorithms and particle filtering, where particles mutate intention hypotheses throughout the pedestrian motion with ReBiL as the motion model. Through experiments on a publicly available dataset, we show that our method outperforms baseline approaches and the robust performance of our method is demonstrated under abnormal intention-changing scenarios. 

Title: Trained Trajectory based Automated Parking System using Visual SLAM
Abstract:  Automated Parking is becoming a standard feature in modern vehicles. Existing parking systems build a local map to be able to plan for maneuvering towards a detected slot. Next generation parking systems have an use case where they build a persistent map of the environment where the car is frequently parked, say for example, home parking or office parking. The pre-built map helps in re-localizing the vehicle better when its trying to park the next time. This is achieved by augmenting the parking system with a Visual SLAM pipeline and the feature is called trained trajectory parking. In this paper, we discuss the use cases, design and implementation of a trained trajectory automated parking system. To encourage further research, we release a dataset of 50 video sequences comprising of over 100,000 images with the associated ground truth as a companion to our WoodScape dataset \cite{Yogamani_2019_ICCV}. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first public dataset for trained trajectory parking system scenarios. 

Title: Towards Identifying and closing Gaps in Assurance of autonomous Road vehicleS -- a collection of Technical Notes Part 1
Abstract:  This report provides an introduction and overview of the Technical Topic Notes (TTNs) produced in the Towards Identifying and closing Gaps in Assurance of autonomous Road vehicleS (Tigars) project. These notes aim to support the development and evaluation of autonomous vehicles. Part 1 addresses: Assurance-overview and issues, Resilience and Safety Requirements, Open Systems Perspective and Formal Verification and Static Analysis of ML Systems. Part 2: Simulation and Dynamic Testing, Defence in Depth and Diversity, Security-Informed Safety Analysis, Standards and Guidelines. 

Title: JRMOT: A Real-Time 3D Multi-Object Tracker and a New Large-Scale Dataset
Abstract:  Robots navigating autonomously need to perceive and track the motion of objects and other agents in its surroundings. This information enables planning and executing robust and safe trajectories. To facilitate these processes, the motion should be perceived in 3D Cartesian space. However, most recent multi-object tracking (MOT) research has focused on tracking people and moving objects in 2D RGB video sequences. In this work we present JRMOT, a novel 3D MOT system that integrates information from RGB images and 3D point clouds to achieve real-time, state-of-the-art tracking performance. Our system is built with recent neural networks for re-identification, 2D and 3D detection and track description, combined into a joint probabilistic data-association framework within a multi-modal recursive Kalman architecture. As part of our work, we release the JRDB dataset, a novel large scale 2D+3D dataset and benchmark, annotated with over 2 million boxes and 3500 time consistent 2D+3D trajectories across 54 indoor and outdoor scenes. JRDB contains over 60 minutes of data including 360 degree cylindrical RGB video and 3D pointclouds in social settings that we use to develop, train and evaluate JRMOT. The presented 3D MOT system demonstrates state-of-the-art performance against competing methods on the popular 2D tracking KITTI benchmark and serves as first 3D tracking solution for our benchmark. Real-robot tests on our social robot JackRabbot indicate that the system is capable of tracking multiple pedestrians fast and reliably. We provide the ROS code of our tracker at https://sites.google.com/view/jrmot. 

Title: From Monocular SLAM to Autonomous Drone Exploration
Abstract:  Micro aerial vehicles (MAVs) are strongly limited in their payload and power capacity. In order to implement autonomous navigation, algorithms are therefore desirable that use sensory equipment that is as small, low-weight, and low-power consuming as possible. In this paper, we propose a method for autonomous MAV navigation and exploration using a low-cost consumer-grade quadrocopter equipped with a monocular camera. Our vision-based navigation system builds on LSD-SLAM which estimates the MAV trajectory and a semi-dense reconstruction of the environment in real-time. Since LSD-SLAM only determines depth at high gradient pixels, texture-less areas are not directly observed so that previous exploration methods that assume dense map information cannot directly be applied. We propose an obstacle mapping and exploration approach that takes the properties of our semi-dense monocular SLAM system into account. In experiments, we demonstrate our vision-based autonomous navigation and exploration system with a Parrot Bebop MAV. 

Title: Macro-Action-Based Deep Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  In real-world multi-robot systems, performing high-quality, collaborative behaviors requires robots to asynchronously reason about high-level action selection at varying time durations. Macro-Action Decentralized Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (MacDec-POMDPs) provide a general framework for asynchronous decision making under uncertainty in fully cooperative multi-agent tasks. However, multi-agent deep reinforcement learning methods have only been developed for (synchronous) primitive-action problems. This paper proposes two Deep Q-Network (DQN) based methods for learning decentralized and centralized macro-action-value functions with novel macro-action trajectory replay buffers introduced for each case. Evaluations on benchmark problems and a larger domain demonstrate the advantage of learning with macro-actions over primitive-actions and the scalability of our approaches. 

Title: Learning Socially Appropriate Robot Approaching Behavior Toward Groups using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning has recently been widely applied in robotics to study tasks such as locomotion and grasping, but its application to social human-robot interaction (HRI) remains a challenge. In this paper, we present a deep learning scheme that acquires a prior model of robot approaching behavior in simulation and applies it to real-world interaction with a physical robot approaching groups of humans. The scheme, which we refer to as Staged Social Behavior Learning (SSBL), considers different stages of learning in social scenarios. We learn robot approaching behaviors towards small groups in simulation and evaluate the performance of the model using objective and subjective measures in a perceptual study and a HRI user study with human participants. Results show that our model generates more socially appropriate behavior compared to a state-of-the-art model. 

Title: 3D Local Features for Direct Pairwise Registration
Abstract:  We present a novel, data driven approach for solving the problem of registration of two point cloud scans. Our approach is direct in the sense that a single pair of corresponding local patches already provides the necessary transformation cue for the global registration. To achieve that, we first endow the state of the art PPF-FoldNet auto-encoder (AE) with a pose-variant sibling, where the discrepancy between the two leads to pose-specific descriptors. Based upon this, we introduce RelativeNet, a relative pose estimation network to assign correspondence-specific orientations to the keypoints, eliminating any local reference frame computations. Finally, we devise a simple yet effective hypothesize-and-verify algorithm to quickly use the predictions and align two point sets. Our extensive quantitative and qualitative experiments suggests that our approach outperforms the state of the art in challenging real datasets of pairwise registration and that augmenting the keypoints with local pose information leads to better generalization and a dramatic speed-up. 

Title: Visual-Inertial Monocular SLAM with Map Reuse
Abstract:  In recent years there have been excellent results in Visual-Inertial Odometry techniques, which aim to compute the incremental motion of the sensor with high accuracy and robustness. However these approaches lack the capability to close loops, and trajectory estimation accumulates drift even if the sensor is continually revisiting the same place. In this work we present a novel tightly-coupled Visual-Inertial Simultaneous Localization and Mapping system that is able to close loops and reuse its map to achieve zero-drift localization in already mapped areas. While our approach can be applied to any camera configuration, we address here the most general problem of a monocular camera, with its well-known scale ambiguity. We also propose a novel IMU initialization method, which computes the scale, the gravity direction, the velocity, and gyroscope and accelerometer biases, in a few seconds with high accuracy. We test our system in the 11 sequences of a recent micro-aerial vehicle public dataset achieving a typical scale factor error of 1% and centimeter precision. We compare to the state-of-the-art in visual-inertial odometry in sequences with revisiting, proving the better accuracy of our method due to map reuse and no drift accumulation. 

Title: Deeply Informed Neural Sampling for Robot Motion Planning
Abstract:  Sampling-based Motion Planners (SMPs) have become increasingly popular as they provide collision-free path solutions regardless of obstacle geometry in a given environment. However, their computational complexity increases significantly with the dimensionality of the motion planning problem. Adaptive sampling is one of the ways to speed up SMPs by sampling a particular region of a configuration space that is more likely to contain an optimal path solution. Although there are a wide variety of algorithms for adaptive sampling, they rely on hand-crafted heuristics; furthermore, their performance decreases significantly in high-dimensional spaces. In this paper, we present a neural network-based adaptive sampler for motion planning called Deep Sampling-based Motion Planner (DeepSMP). DeepSMP generates samples for SMPs and enhances their overall speed significantly while exhibiting efficient scalability to higher-dimensional problems. DeepSMP's neural architecture comprises of a Contractive AutoEncoder which encodes given workspaces directly from a raw point cloud data, and a Dropout-based stochastic deep feedforward neural network which takes the workspace encoding, start and goal configuration, and iteratively generates feasible samples for SMPs to compute end-to-end collision-free optimal paths. DeepSMP is not only consistently computationally efficient in all tested environments but has also shown remarkable generalization to completely unseen environments. We evaluate DeepSMP on multiple planning problems including planning of a point-mass robot, rigid-body, 6-link robotic manipulator in various 2D and 3D environments. The results show that on average our method is at least 7 times faster in point-mass and rigid-body case and about 28 times faster in 6-link robot case than the existing state-of-the-art. 

Title: First Steps: Latent-Space Control with Semantic Constraints for Quadruped Locomotion
Abstract:  Traditional approaches to quadruped control frequently employ simplified, hand-derived models. This significantly reduces the capability of the robot since its effective kinematic range is curtailed. In addition, kinodynamic constraints are often non-differentiable and difficult to implement in an optimisation approach. In this work, these challenges are addressed by framing quadruped control as optimisation in a structured latent space. A deep generative model captures a statistical representation of feasible joint configurations, whilst complex dynamic and terminal constraints are expressed via high-level, semantic indicators and represented by learned classifiers operating upon the latent space. As a consequence, complex constraints are rendered differentiable and evaluated an order of magnitude faster than analytical approaches. We validate the feasibility of locomotion trajectories optimised using our approach both in simulation and on a real-world ANYmal quadruped. Our results demonstrate that this approach is capable of generating smooth and realisable trajectories. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time latent space control has been successfully applied to a complex, real robot platform. 

Title: Emotion in Reinforcement Learning Agents and Robots: A Survey
Abstract:  This article provides the first survey of computational models of emotion in reinforcement learning (RL) agents. The survey focuses on agent/robot emotions, and mostly ignores human user emotions. Emotions are recognized as functional in decision-making by influencing motivation and action selection. Therefore, computational emotion models are usually grounded in the agent's decision making architecture, of which RL is an important subclass. Studying emotions in RL-based agents is useful for three research fields. For machine learning (ML) researchers, emotion models may improve learning efficiency. For the interactive ML and human-robot interaction (HRI) community, emotions can communicate state and enhance user investment. Lastly, it allows affective modelling (AM) researchers to investigate their emotion theories in a successful AI agent class. This survey provides background on emotion theory and RL. It systematically addresses 1) from what underlying dimensions (e.g., homeostasis, appraisal) emotions can be derived and how these can be modelled in RL-agents, 2) what types of emotions have been derived from these dimensions, and 3) how these emotions may either influence the learning efficiency of the agent or be useful as social signals. We also systematically compare evaluation criteria, and draw connections to important RL sub-domains like (intrinsic) motivation and model-based RL. In short, this survey provides both a practical overview for engineers wanting to implement emotions in their RL agents, and identifies challenges and directions for future emotion-RL research. 

Title: A Short Note on Analyzing Sequence Complexity in Trajectory Prediction Benchmarks
Abstract:  The analysis and quantification of sequence complexity is an open problem frequently encountered when defining trajectory prediction benchmarks. In order to enable a more informative assembly of a data basis, an approach for determining a dataset representation in terms of a small set of distinguishable prototypical sub-sequences is proposed. The approach employs a sequence alignment followed by a learning vector quantization (LVQ) stage. A first proof of concept on synthetically generated and real-world datasets shows the viability of the approach. 

Title: Efficient iterative policy optimization
Abstract:  We tackle the issue of finding a good policy when the number of policy updates is limited. This is done by approximating the expected policy reward as a sequence of concave lower bounds which can be efficiently maximized, drastically reducing the number of policy updates required to achieve good performance. We also extend existing methods to negative rewards, enabling the use of control variates. 

Title: Direct Visual-Inertial Odometry with Semi-Dense Mapping
Abstract:  The paper presents a direct visual-inertial odometry system. In particular, a tightly coupled nonlinear optimization based method is proposed by integrating the recent advances in direct dense tracking and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) pre-integration, and a factor graph optimization is adapted to estimate the pose of the camera and rebuild a semi-dense map. Two sliding windows are maintained in the proposed approach. The first one, based on Direct Sparse Odometry (DSO), is to estimate the depths of candidate points for mapping and dense visual tracking. In the second one, measurements from the IMU pre-integration and dense visual tracking are fused probabilistically using a tightly-coupled, optimization-based sensor fusion framework. As a result, the IMU pre-integration provides additional constraints to suppress the scale drift induced by the visual odometry. Evaluations on real-world benchmark datasets show that the proposed method achieves competitive results in indoor scenes. 

Title: Seeing Unseeability to See the Unseeable
Abstract:  We present a framework that allows an observer to determine occluded portions of a structure by finding the maximum-likelihood estimate of those occluded portions consistent with visible image evidence and a consistency model. Doing this requires determining which portions of the structure are occluded in the first place. Since each process relies on the other, we determine a solution to both problems in tandem. We extend our framework to determine confidence of one's assessment of which portions of an observed structure are occluded, and the estimate of that occluded structure, by determining the sensitivity of one's assessment to potential new observations. We further extend our framework to determine a robotic action whose execution would allow a new observation that would maximally increase one's confidence. 

Title: A Human Action Descriptor Based on Motion Coordination
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a descriptor for human whole-body actions based on motion coordination. We exploit the principle, well known in neuromechanics, that humans move their joints in a coordinated fashion. Our coordination-based descriptor (CODE) is computed by two main steps. The first step is to identify the most informative joints which characterize the motion. The second step enriches the descriptor considering minimum and maximum joint velocities and the correlations between the most informative joints. In order to compute the distances between action descriptors, we propose a novel correlation-based similarity measure. The performance of CODE is tested on two public datasets, namely HDM05 and Berkeley MHAD, and compared with state-of-the-art approaches, showing recognition results. 

Title: Batch Active Preference-Based Learning of Reward Functions
Abstract:  Data generation and labeling are usually an expensive part of learning for robotics. While active learning methods are commonly used to tackle the former problem, preference-based learning is a concept that attempts to solve the latter by querying users with preference questions. In this paper, we will develop a new algorithm, batch active preference-based learning, that enables efficient learning of reward functions using as few data samples as possible while still having short query generation times. We introduce several approximations to the batch active learning problem, and provide theoretical guarantees for the convergence of our algorithms. Finally, we present our experimental results for a variety of robotics tasks in simulation. Our results suggest that our batch active learning algorithm requires only a few queries that are computed in a short amount of time. We then showcase our algorithm in a study to learn human users' preferences. 

Title: Performance Boundary Identification for the Evaluation of Automated Vehicles using Gaussian Process Classification
Abstract:  Safety is an essential aspect in the facilitation of automated vehicle deployment. Current testing practices are not enough, and going beyond them leads to infeasible testing requirements, such as needing to drive billions of kilometres on public roads. Automated vehicles are exposed to an indefinite number of scenarios. Handling of the most challenging scenarios should be tested, which leads to the question of how such corner cases can be determined. We propose an approach to identify the performance boundary, where these corner cases are located, using Gaussian Process Classification. We also demonstrate the classification on an exemplary traffic jam approach scenario, showing that it is feasible and would lead to more efficient testing practices. 

Title: Robot_gym: accelerated robot training through simulation in the cloud with ROS and Gazebo
Abstract:  Rather than programming, training allows robots to achieve behaviors that generalize better and are capable to respond to real-world needs. However, such training requires a big amount of experimentation which is not always feasible for a physical robot. In this work, we present robot_gym, a framework to accelerate robot training through simulation in the cloud that makes use of roboticists' tools, simplifying the development and deployment processes on real robots. We unveil that, for simple tasks, simple 3DoF robots require more than 140 attempts to learn. For more complex, 6DoF robots, the number of attempts increases to more than 900 for the same task. We demonstrate that our framework, for simple tasks, accelerates the robot training time by more than 33% while maintaining similar levels of accuracy and repeatability. 

Title: Structure Aware SLAM using Quadrics and Planes
Abstract:  Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) is a fundamental problem in mobile robotics. While point-based SLAM methods provide accurate camera localization, the generated maps lack semantic information. On the other hand, state of the art object detection methods provide rich information about entities present in the scene from a single image. This work marries the two and proposes a method for representing generic objects as quadrics which allows object detections to be seamlessly integrated in a SLAM framework. For scene coverage, additional dominant planar structures are modeled as infinite planes. Experiments show that the proposed points-planes-quadrics representation can easily incorporate Manhattan and object affordance constraints, greatly improving camera localization and leading to semantically meaningful maps. The performance of our SLAM system is demonstrated in https://youtu.be/dR-rB9keF8M . 

Title: Learning Robotic Manipulation through Visual Planning and Acting
Abstract:  Planning for robotic manipulation requires reasoning about the changes a robot can affect on objects. When such interactions can be modelled analytically, as in domains with rigid objects, efficient planning algorithms exist. However, in both domestic and industrial domains, the objects of interest can be soft, or deformable, and hard to model analytically. For such cases, we posit that a data-driven modelling approach is more suitable. In recent years, progress in deep generative models has produced methods that learn to `imagine' plausible images from data. Building on the recent Causal InfoGAN generative model, in this work we learn to imagine goal-directed object manipulation directly from raw image data of self-supervised interaction of the robot with the object. After learning, given a goal observation of the system, our model can generate an imagined plan -- a sequence of images that transition the object into the desired goal. To execute the plan, we use it as a reference trajectory to track with a visual servoing controller, which we also learn from the data as an inverse dynamics model. In a simulated manipulation task, we show that separating the problem into visual planning and visual tracking control is more sample efficient and more interpretable than alternative data-driven approaches. We further demonstrate our approach on learning to imagine and execute in 3 environments, the final of which is deformable rope manipulation on a PR2 robot. 

Title: Crack Detection Using Enhanced Thresholding on UAV based Collected Images
Abstract:  This paper proposes a thresholding approach for crack detection in an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) based infrastructure inspection system. The proposed algorithm performs recursively on the intensity histogram of UAV-taken images to exploit their crack-pixels appearing at the low intensity interval. A quantified criterion of interclass contrast is proposed and employed as an object cost and stop condition for the recursive process. Experiments on different datasets show that our algorithm outperforms different segmentation approaches to accurately extract crack features of some commercial buildings. 

Title: FutureMapping: The Computational Structure of Spatial AI Systems
Abstract:  We discuss and predict the evolution of Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) into a general geometric and semantic `Spatial AI' perception capability for intelligent embodied devices. A big gap remains between the visual perception performance that devices such as augmented reality eyewear or comsumer robots will require and what is possible within the constraints imposed by real products. Co-design of algorithms, processors and sensors will be needed. We explore the computational structure of current and future Spatial AI algorithms and consider this within the landscape of ongoing hardware developments. 

Title: TROVE Feature Detection for Online Pose Recovery by Binocular Cameras
Abstract:  This paper proposes a new and efficient method to estimate 6-DoF ego-states: attitudes and positions in real time. The proposed method extract information of ego-states by observing a feature called "TROVE" (Three Rays and One VErtex). TROVE features are projected from structures that are ubiquitous on man-made constructions and objects. The proposed method does not search for conventional corner-type features nor use Perspective-n-Point (PnP) methods, and it achieves a real-time estimation of attitudes and positions up to 60 Hz. The accuracy of attitude estimates can reach 0.3 degrees and that of position estimates can reach 2 cm in an indoor environment. The result shows a promising approach for unmanned robots to localize in an environment that is rich in man-made structures. 

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning for Autonomous Driving: A Survey
Abstract:  With the development of deep representation learning, the domain of reinforcement learning (RL) has become a powerful learning framework now capable of learning complex policies in high dimensional environments. This review summarises deep reinforcement learning (DRL) algorithms, provides a taxonomy of automated driving tasks where (D)RL methods have been employed, highlights the key challenges algorithmically as well as in terms of deployment of real world autonomous driving agents, the role of simulators in training agents, and finally methods to evaluate, test and robustifying existing solutions in RL and imitation learning. 

Title: Pontryagin Differentiable Programming: An End-to-End Learning and Control Framework
Abstract:  This paper develops a Pontryagin differentiable programming (PDP) methodology, which establishes a unified framework to solve a broad class of learning and control tasks. The PDP methodology distinguishes from existing methods by two novel techniques: first, we differentiate the Pontryagin's Maximum Principle, and this allows us to obtain analytical gradient of a trajectory with respect to a tunable parameter of a system, thus enabling end-to-end learning of system dynamics, policy, or/and control objective function; and second, we propose an auxiliary control system in backward pass of the PDP framework, and show that the output of the auxiliary control system is exactly the gradient of the system trajectory with respect to the parameter, which can be iteratively obtained using control tools. We investigate three learning modes of the PDP: inverse reinforcement learning, system identification, and control/planning, respectively. We demonstrate the capability of the PDP in each learning mode using various high-dimensional systems, including multilink robot arm, 6-DoF maneuvering UAV, and 6-DoF rocket powered landing. 

Title: Automatic Extrinsic Calibration for Lidar-Stereo Vehicle Sensor Setups
Abstract:  Sensor setups consisting of a combination of 3D range scanner lasers and stereo vision systems are becoming a popular choice for on-board perception systems in vehicles; however, the combined use of both sources of information implies a tedious calibration process. We present a method for extrinsic calibration of lidar-stereo camera pairs without user intervention. Our calibration approach is aimed to cope with the constraints commonly found in automotive setups, such as low-resolution and specific sensor poses. To demonstrate the performance of our method, we also introduce a novel approach for the quantitative assessment of the calibration results, based on a simulation environment. Tests using real devices have been conducted as well, proving the usability of the system and the improvement over the existing approaches. Code is available at http://wiki.ros.org/velo2cam_calibration 

Title: Event-based Camera Pose Tracking using a Generative Event Model
Abstract:  Event-based vision sensors mimic the operation of biological retina and they represent a major paradigm shift from traditional cameras. Instead of providing frames of intensity measurements synchronously, at artificially chosen rates, event-based cameras provide information on brightness changes asynchronously, when they occur. Such non-redundant pieces of information are called "events". These sensors overcome some of the limitations of traditional cameras (response time, bandwidth and dynamic range) but require new methods to deal with the data they output. We tackle the problem of event-based camera localization in a known environment, without additional sensing, using a probabilistic generative event model in a Bayesian filtering framework. Our main contribution is the design of the likelihood function used in the filter to process the observed events. Based on the physical characteristics of the sensor and on empirical evidence of the Gaussian-like distribution of spiked events with respect to the brightness change, we propose to use the contrast residual as a measure of how well the estimated pose of the event-based camera and the environment explain the observed events. The filter allows for localization in the general case of six degrees-of-freedom motions. 

Title: Constructing Category-Specific Models for Monocular Object-SLAM
Abstract:  We present a new paradigm for real-time object-oriented SLAM with a monocular camera. Contrary to previous approaches, that rely on object-level models, we construct category-level models from CAD collections which are now widely available. To alleviate the need for huge amounts of labeled data, we develop a rendering pipeline that enables synthesis of large datasets from a limited amount of manually labeled data. Using data thus synthesized, we learn category-level models for object deformations in 3D, as well as discriminative object features in 2D. These category models are instance-independent and aid in the design of object landmark observations that can be incorporated into a generic monocular SLAM framework. Where typical object-SLAM approaches usually solve only for object and camera poses, we also estimate object shape on-the-fly, allowing for a wide range of objects from the category to be present in the scene. Moreover, since our 2D object features are learned discriminatively, the proposed object-SLAM system succeeds in several scenarios where sparse feature-based monocular SLAM fails due to insufficient features or parallax. Also, the proposed category-models help in object instance retrieval, useful for Augmented Reality (AR) applications. We evaluate the proposed framework on multiple challenging real-world scenes and show --- to the best of our knowledge --- first results of an instance-independent monocular object-SLAM system and the benefits it enjoys over feature-based SLAM methods. 

Title: Autonomous UAV Navigation: A DDPG-based Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose an autonomous UAV path planning framework using deep reinforcement learning approach. The objective is to employ a self-trained UAV as a flying mobile unit to reach spatially distributed moving or static targets in a given three dimensional urban area. In this approach, a Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG) with continuous action space is designed to train the UAV to navigate through or over the obstacles to reach its assigned target. A customized reward function is developed to minimize the distance separating the UAV and its destination while penalizing collisions. Numerical simulations investigate the behavior of the UAV in learning the environment and autonomously determining trajectories for different selected scenarios. 

Title: Adding Neural Network Controllers to Behavior Trees without Destroying Performance Guarantees
Abstract:  In this paper, we show how Behavior Trees that have performance guarantees, in terms of safety and goal convergence, can be extended with components that were designed using machine learning, without destroying those performance guarantees. Machine learning approaches such as reinforcement learning or learning from demonstration can be very appealing to AI designers that want efficient and realistic behaviors in their agents. However, those algorithms seldom provide guarantees for solving the given task in all different situations while keeping the agent safe. Instead, such guarantees are often easier to find for manually designed model based approaches. In this paper we exploit the modularity of Behavior trees to extend a given design with an efficient, but possibly unreliable, machine learning component in a way that preserves the guarantees. The approach is illustrated with an inverted pendulum example. 

Title: Model Based Planning with Energy Based Models
Abstract:  Model-based planning holds great promise for improving both sample efficiency and generalization in reinforcement learning (RL). We show that energy-based models (EBMs) are a promising class of models to use for model-based planning. EBMs naturally support inference of intermediate states given start and goal state distributions. We provide an online algorithm to train EBMs while interacting with the environment, and show that EBMs allow for significantly better online learning than corresponding feed-forward networks. We further show that EBMs support maximum entropy state inference and are able to generate diverse state space plans. We show that inference purely in state space - without planning actions - allows for better generalization to previously unseen obstacles in the environment and prevents the planner from exploiting the dynamics model by applying uncharacteristic action sequences. Finally, we show that online EBM training naturally leads to intentionally planned state exploration which performs significantly better than random exploration. 

Title: Elaborating on Learned Demonstrations with Temporal Logic Specifications
Abstract:  Most current methods for learning from demonstrations assume that those demonstrations alone are sufficient to learn the underlying task. This is often untrue, especially if extra safety specifications exist which were not present in the original demonstrations. In this paper, we allow an expert to elaborate on their original demonstration with additional specification information using linear temporal logic (LTL). Our system converts LTL specifications into a differentiable loss. This loss is then used to learn a dynamic movement primitive that satisfies the underlying specification, while remaining close to the original demonstration. Further, by leveraging adversarial training, our system learns to robustly satisfy the given LTL specification on unseen inputs, not just those seen in training. We show that our method is expressive enough to work across a variety of common movement specification patterns such as obstacle avoidance, patrolling, keeping steady, and speed limitation. In addition, we show that our system can modify a base demonstration with complex specifications by incrementally composing multiple simpler specifications. We also implement our system on a PR-2 robot to show how a demonstrator can start with an initial (sub-optimal) demonstration, then interactively improve task success by including additional specifications enforced with our differentiable LTL loss. 

Title: Vision-based control of a knuckle boom crane with online cable length estimation
Abstract:  A vision-based controller for a knuckle boom crane is presented. The controller is used to control the motion of the crane tip and at the same time compensate for payload oscillations. The oscillations of the payload are measured with three cameras that are fixed to the crane king and are used to track two spherical markers fixed to the payload cable. Based on color and size information, each camera identifies the image points corresponding to the markers. The payload angles are then determined using linear triangulation of the image points. An extended Kalman filter is used for estimation of payload angles and angular velocity. The length of the payload cable is also estimated using a least squares technique with projection. The crane is controlled by a linear cascade controller where the inner control loop is designed to damp out the pendulum oscillation, and the crane tip is controlled by the outer loop. The control variable of the controller is the commanded crane tip acceleration, which is converted to a velocity command using a velocity loop. The performance of the control system is studied experimentally using a scaled laboratory version of a knuckle boom crane. 

Title: Learning Flexible and Reusable Locomotion Primitives for a Microrobot
Abstract:  The design of gaits for robot locomotion can be a daunting process which requires significant expert knowledge and engineering. This process is even more challenging for robots that do not have an accurate physical model, such as compliant or micro-scale robots. Data-driven gait optimization provides an automated alternative to analytical gait design. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to efficiently learn a wide range of locomotion tasks with walking robots. This approach formalizes locomotion as a contextual policy search task to collect data, and subsequently uses that data to learn multi-objective locomotion primitives that can be used for planning. As a proof-of-concept we consider a simulated hexapod modeled after a recently developed microrobot, and we thoroughly evaluate the performance of this microrobot on different tasks and gaits. Our results validate the proposed controller and learning scheme on single and multi-objective locomotion tasks. Moreover, the experimental simulations show that without any prior knowledge about the robot used (e.g., dynamics model), our approach is capable of learning locomotion primitives within 250 trials and subsequently using them to successfully navigate through a maze. 

Title: Action Sequence Predictions of Vehicles in Urban Environments using Map and Social Context
Abstract:  This work studies the problem of predicting the sequence of future actions for surround vehicles in real-world driving scenarios. To this aim, we make three main contributions. The first contribution is an automatic method to convert the trajectories recorded in real-world driving scenarios to action sequences with the help of HD maps. The method enables automatic dataset creation for this task from large-scale driving data. Our second contribution lies in applying the method to the well-known traffic agent tracking and prediction dataset Argoverse, resulting in 228,000 action sequences. Additionally, 2,245 action sequences were manually annotated for testing. The third contribution is to propose a novel action sequence prediction method by integrating past positions and velocities of the traffic agents, map information and social context into a single end-to-end trainable neural network. Our experiments prove the merit of the data creation method and the value of the created dataset - prediction performance improves consistently with the size of the dataset and shows that our action prediction method outperforms comparing models. 

Title: Mixed Reinforcement Learning with Additive Stochastic Uncertainty
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning (RL) methods often rely on massive exploration data to search optimal policies, and suffer from poor sampling efficiency. This paper presents a mixed reinforcement learning (mixed RL) algorithm by simultaneously using dual representations of environmental dynamics to search the optimal policy with the purpose of improving both learning accuracy and training speed. The dual representations indicate the environmental model and the state-action data: the former can accelerate the learning process of RL, while its inherent model uncertainty generally leads to worse policy accuracy than the latter, which comes from direct measurements of states and actions. In the framework design of the mixed RL, the compensation of the additive stochastic model uncertainty is embedded inside the policy iteration RL framework by using explored state-action data via iterative Bayesian estimator (IBE). The optimal policy is then computed in an iterative way by alternating between policy evaluation (PEV) and policy improvement (PIM). The convergence of the mixed RL is proved using the Bellman's principle of optimality, and the recursive stability of the generated policy is proved via the Lyapunov's direct method. The effectiveness of the mixed RL is demonstrated by a typical optimal control problem of stochastic non-affine nonlinear systems (i.e., double lane change task with an automated vehicle). 

Title: GFPNet: A Deep Network for Learning Shape Completion in Generic Fitted Primitives
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose an object reconstruction apparatus that uses the so-called Generic Primitives (GP) to complete shapes. A GP is a 3D point cloud depicting a generalized shape of a class of objects. To reconstruct the objects in a scene we first fit a GP onto each occluded object to obtain an initial raw structure. Secondly, we use a model-based deformation technique to fold the surface of the GP over the occluded object. The deformation model is encoded within the layers of a Deep Neural Network (DNN), coined GFPNet. The objective of the network is to transfer the particularities of the object from the scene to the raw volume represented by the GP. We show that GFPNet competes with state of the art shape completion methods by providing performance results on the ModelNet and KITTI benchmarking datasets. 

Title: Situated GAIL: Multitask imitation using task-conditioned adversarial inverse reinforcement learning
Abstract:  Generative adversarial imitation learning (GAIL) has attracted increasing attention in the field of robot learning. It enables robots to learn a policy to achieve a task demonstrated by an expert while simultaneously estimating the reward function behind the expert's behaviors. However, this framework is limited to learning a single task with a single reward function. This study proposes an extended framework called situated GAIL (S-GAIL), in which a task variable is introduced to both the discriminator and generator of the GAIL framework. The task variable has the roles of discriminating different contexts and making the framework learn different reward functions and policies for multiple tasks. To achieve the early convergence of learning and robustness during reward estimation, we introduce a term to adjust the entropy regularization coefficient in the generator's objective function. Our experiments using two setups (navigation in a discrete grid world and arm reaching in a continuous space) demonstrate that the proposed framework can acquire multiple reward functions and policies more effectively than existing frameworks. The task variable enables our framework to differentiate contexts while sharing common knowledge among multiple tasks. 

Title: Adaptive Stress Testing with Reward Augmentation for Autonomous Vehicle Validation
Abstract:  Determining possible failure scenarios is a critical step in the evaluation of autonomous vehicle systems. Real-world vehicle testing is commonly employed for autonomous vehicle validation, but the costs and time requirements are high. Consequently, simulation-driven methods such as Adaptive Stress Testing (AST) have been proposed to aid in validation. AST formulates the problem of finding the most likely failure scenarios as a Markov decision process, which can be solved using reinforcement learning. In practice, AST tends to find scenarios where failure is unavoidable and tends to repeatedly discover the same types of failures of a system. This work addresses these issues by encoding domain relevant information into the search procedure. With this modification, the AST method discovers a larger and more expressive subset of the failure space when compared to the original AST formulation. We show that our approach is able to identify useful failure scenarios of an autonomous vehicle policy. 

Title: Segmenting Unknown 3D Objects from Real Depth Images using Mask R-CNN Trained on Synthetic Data
Abstract:  The ability to segment unknown objects in depth images has potential to enhance robot skills in grasping and object tracking. Recent computer vision research has demonstrated that Mask R-CNN can be trained to segment specific categories of objects in RGB images when massive hand-labeled datasets are available. As generating these datasets is time consuming, we instead train with synthetic depth images. Many robots now use depth sensors, and recent results suggest training on synthetic depth data can transfer successfully to the real world. We present a method for automated dataset generation and rapidly generate a synthetic training dataset of 50,000 depth images and 320,000 object masks using simulated heaps of 3D CAD models. We train a variant of Mask R-CNN with domain randomization on the generated dataset to perform category-agnostic instance segmentation without any hand-labeled data and we evaluate the trained network, which we refer to as Synthetic Depth (SD) Mask R-CNN, on a set of real, high-resolution depth images of challenging, densely-cluttered bins containing objects with highly-varied geometry. SD Mask R-CNN outperforms point cloud clustering baselines by an absolute 15% in Average Precision and 20% in Average Recall on COCO benchmarks, and achieves performance levels similar to a Mask R-CNN trained on a massive, hand-labeled RGB dataset and fine-tuned on real images from the experimental setup. We deploy the model in an instance-specific grasping pipeline to demonstrate its usefulness in a robotics application. Code, the synthetic training dataset, and supplementary material are available at https://bit.ly/2letCuE. 

Title: Time-Contrastive Networks: Self-Supervised Learning from Video
Abstract:  We propose a self-supervised approach for learning representations and robotic behaviors entirely from unlabeled videos recorded from multiple viewpoints, and study how this representation can be used in two robotic imitation settings: imitating object interactions from videos of humans, and imitating human poses. Imitation of human behavior requires a viewpoint-invariant representation that captures the relationships between end-effectors (hands or robot grippers) and the environment, object attributes, and body pose. We train our representations using a metric learning loss, where multiple simultaneous viewpoints of the same observation are attracted in the embedding space, while being repelled from temporal neighbors which are often visually similar but functionally different. In other words, the model simultaneously learns to recognize what is common between different-looking images, and what is different between similar-looking images. This signal causes our model to discover attributes that do not change across viewpoint, but do change across time, while ignoring nuisance variables such as occlusions, motion blur, lighting and background. We demonstrate that this representation can be used by a robot to directly mimic human poses without an explicit correspondence, and that it can be used as a reward function within a reinforcement learning algorithm. While representations are learned from an unlabeled collection of task-related videos, robot behaviors such as pouring are learned by watching a single 3rd-person demonstration by a human. Reward functions obtained by following the human demonstrations under the learned representation enable efficient reinforcement learning that is practical for real-world robotic systems. Video results, open-source code and dataset are available at https://sermanet.github.io/imitate 

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning for Vision-Based Robotic Grasping: A Simulated Comparative Evaluation of Off-Policy Methods
Abstract:  In this paper, we explore deep reinforcement learning algorithms for vision-based robotic grasping. Model-free deep reinforcement learning (RL) has been successfully applied to a range of challenging environments, but the proliferation of algorithms makes it difficult to discern which particular approach would be best suited for a rich, diverse task like grasping. To answer this question, we propose a simulated benchmark for robotic grasping that emphasizes off-policy learning and generalization to unseen objects. Off-policy learning enables utilization of grasping data over a wide variety of objects, and diversity is important to enable the method to generalize to new objects that were not seen during training. We evaluate the benchmark tasks against a variety of Q-function estimation methods, a method previously proposed for robotic grasping with deep neural network models, and a novel approach based on a combination of Monte Carlo return estimation and an off-policy correction. Our results indicate that several simple methods provide a surprisingly strong competitor to popular algorithms such as double Q-learning, and our analysis of stability sheds light on the relative tradeoffs between the algorithms. 

Title: Safe Reinforcement Learning with Scene Decomposition for Navigating Complex Urban Environments
Abstract:  Navigating urban environments represents a complex task for automated vehicles. They must reach their goal safely and efficiently while considering a multitude of traffic participants. We propose a modular decision making algorithm to autonomously navigate intersections, addressing challenges of existing rule-based and reinforcement learning (RL) approaches. We first present a safe RL algorithm relying on a model-checker to ensure safety guarantees. To make the decision strategy robust to perception errors and occlusions, we introduce a belief update technique using a learning based approach. Finally, we use a scene decomposition approach to scale our algorithm to environments with multiple traffic participants. We empirically demonstrate that our algorithm outperforms rule-based methods and reinforcement learning techniques on a complex intersection scenario. 

Title: X-Ray: Mechanical Search for an Occluded Object by Minimizing Support of Learned Occupancy Distributions
Abstract:  For applications in e-commerce, warehouses, healthcare, and home service, robots are often required to search through heaps of objects to grasp a specific target object. For mechanical search, we introduce X-Ray, an algorithm based on learned occupancy distributions. We train a neural network using a synthetic dataset of RGBD heap images labeled for a set of standard bounding box targets with varying aspect ratios. X-Ray minimizes support of the learned distribution as part of a mechanical search policy in both simulated and real environments. We benchmark these policies against two baseline policies on 1,000 heaps of 15 objects in simulation where the target object is partially or fully occluded. Results suggest that X-Ray is significantly more efficient, as it succeeds in extracting the target object 82% of the time, 15% more often than the best-performing baseline. Experiments on an ABB YuMi robot with 20 heaps of 25 household objects suggest that the learned policy transfers easily to a physical system, where it outperforms baseline policies by 15% in success rate with 17% fewer actions. Datasets, videos, and experiments are available at http://sites.google.com/berkeley.edu/x-ray . 

Title: Domain Adaptation Using Adversarial Learning for Autonomous Navigation
Abstract:  Autonomous navigation has become an increasingly popular machine learning application. Recent advances in deep learning have also resulted in great improvements to autonomous navigation. However, prior outdoor autonomous navigation depends on various expensive sensors or large amounts of real labeled data which is difficult to acquire and sometimes erroneous. The objective of this study is to train an autonomous navigation model that uses a simulator (instead of real labeled data) and an inexpensive monocular camera. In order to exploit the simulator satisfactorily, our proposed method is based on domain adaptation with adversarial learning. Specifically, we propose our model with 1) a dilated residual block in the generator, 2) cycle loss, and 3) style loss to improve the adversarial learning performance for satisfactory domain adaptation. In addition, we perform a theoretical analysis that supports the justification of our proposed method. We present empirical results of navigation in outdoor courses with various intersections using a commercial radio controlled car. We observe that our proposed method allows us to learn a favorable navigation model by generating images with realistic textures. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to apply domain adaptation with adversarial learning to autonomous navigation in real outdoor environments. Our proposed method can also be applied to precise image generation or other robotic tasks. 

Title: Motion Planning Among Dynamic, Decision-Making Agents with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Robots that navigate among pedestrians use collision avoidance algorithms to enable safe and efficient operation. Recent works present deep reinforcement learning as a framework to model the complex interactions and cooperation. However, they are implemented using key assumptions about other agents' behavior that deviate from reality as the number of agents in the environment increases. This work extends our previous approach to develop an algorithm that learns collision avoidance among a variety of types of dynamic agents without assuming they follow any particular behavior rules. This work also introduces a strategy using LSTM that enables the algorithm to use observations of an arbitrary number of other agents, instead of previous methods that have a fixed observation size. The proposed algorithm outperforms our previous approach in simulation as the number of agents increases, and the algorithm is demonstrated on a fully autonomous robotic vehicle traveling at human walking speed, without the use of a 3D Lidar. 

Title: Guided Dyna-Q for Mobile Robot Exploration and Navigation
Abstract:  Model-based reinforcement learning (RL) enables an agent to learn world models from trial-and-error experiences toward achieving long-term goals. Automated planning, on the other hand, can be used for accomplishing tasks through reasoning with declarative action knowledge. Despite their shared goal of completing complex tasks, the development of RL and automated planning has mainly been isolated due to their different modalities of computation. Focusing on improving model-based RL agent's exploration strategy and sample efficiency, we develop Guided Dyna-Q (GDQ) to enable RL agents to reason with action knowledge to avoid exploring less-relevant states toward more efficient task accomplishment. GDQ has been evaluated in simulation and using a mobile robot conducting navigation tasks in an office environment. Results show that GDQ reduces the effort in exploration while improving the quality of learned policies. 

Title: ROBO: Robust, Fully Neural Object Detection for Robot Soccer
Abstract:  Deep Learning has become exceptionally popular in the last few years due to its success in computer vision and other fields of AI. However, deep neural networks are computationally expensive, which limits their application in low power embedded systems, such as mobile robots. In this paper, an efficient neural network architecture is proposed for the problem of detecting relevant objects in robot soccer environments. The ROBO model's increase in efficiency is achieved by exploiting the peculiarities of the environment. Compared to the state-of-the-art Tiny YOLO model, the proposed network provides approximately 35 times decrease in run time, while achieving superior average precision, although at the cost of slightly worse localization accuracy. 

Title: ReNeg and Backseat Driver: Learning from Demonstration with Continuous Human Feedback
Abstract:  In autonomous vehicle (AV) control, allowing mistakes can be quite dangerous and costly in the real world. For this reason we investigate methods of training an AV without allowing the agent to explore and instead having a human explorer collect the data. Supervised learning has been explored for AV control, but it encounters the issue of the covariate shift. That is, training data collected from an optimal demonstration consists only of the states induced by the optimal control policy, but at runtime, the trained agent may encounter a vastly different state distribution with little relevant training data. To mitigate this issue, we have our human explorer make sub-optimal decisions. In order to have our agent not replicate these sub-optimal decisions, supervised learning requires that we either erase these actions, or replace these action with the correct action. Erasing is wasteful and replacing is difficult, since it is not easy to know the correct action without driving. We propose an alternate framework that includes continuous scalar feedback for each action, marking which actions we should replicate, which we should avoid, and how sure we are. Our framework learns continuous control from sub-optimal demonstration and evaluative feedback collected before training. We find that a human demonstrator can explore sub-optimal states in a safe manner, while still getting enough gradation to benefit learning. The collection method for data and feedback we call "Backseat Driver." We call the more general learning framework ReNeg, since it learns a regression from states to actions given negative as well as positive examples. We empirically validate several models in the ReNeg framework, testing on lane-following with limited data. We find that the best solution is a generalization of mean-squared error and outperforms supervised learning on the positive examples alone. 

Title: Deep Inverse Q-learning with Constraints
Abstract:  Popular Maximum Entropy Inverse Reinforcement Learning approaches require the computation of expected state visitation frequencies for the optimal policy under an estimate of the reward function. This usually requires intermediate value estimation in the inner loop of the algorithm, slowing down convergence considerably. In this work, we introduce a novel class of algorithms that only needs to solve the MDP underlying the demonstrated behavior once to recover the expert policy. This is possible through a formulation that exploits a probabilistic behavior assumption for the demonstrations within the structure of Q-learning. We propose Inverse Action-value Iteration which is able to fully recover an underlying reward of an external agent in closed-form analytically. We further provide an accompanying class of sampling-based variants which do not depend on a model of the environment. We show how to extend this class of algorithms to continuous state-spaces via function approximation and how to estimate a corresponding action-value function, leading to a policy as close as possible to the policy of the external agent, while optionally satisfying a list of predefined hard constraints. We evaluate the resulting algorithms called Inverse Action-value Iteration, Inverse Q-learning and Deep Inverse Q-learning on the Objectworld benchmark, showing a speedup of up to several orders of magnitude compared to (Deep) Max-Entropy algorithms. We further apply Deep Constrained Inverse Q-learning on the task of learning autonomous lane-changes in the open-source simulator SUMO achieving competent driving after training on data corresponding to 30 minutes of demonstrations. 

Title: VR-Goggles for Robots: Real-to-sim Domain Adaptation for Visual Control
Abstract:  In this paper, we deal with the reality gap from a novel perspective, targeting transferring Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) policies learned in simulated environments to the real-world domain for visual control tasks. Instead of adopting the common solutions to the problem by increasing the visual fidelity of synthetic images output from simulators during the training phase, we seek to tackle the problem by translating the real-world image streams back to the synthetic domain during the deployment phase, to make the robot feel at home. We propose this as a lightweight, flexible, and efficient solution for visual control, as 1) no extra transfer steps are required during the expensive training of DRL agents in simulation; 2) the trained DRL agents will not be constrained to being deployable in only one specific real-world environment; 3) the policy training and the transfer operations are decoupled, and can be conducted in parallel. Besides this, we propose a simple yet effective shift loss that is agnostic to the downstream task, to constrain the consistency between subsequent frames which is important for consistent policy outputs. We validate the shift loss for artistic style transfer for videos and domain adaptation, and validate our visual control approach in indoor and outdoor robotics experiments. 

Title: Decoupled Data Based Approach for Learning to Control Nonlinear Dynamical Systems
Abstract:  This paper addresses the problem of learning the optimal control policy for a nonlinear stochastic dynamical system with continuous state space, continuous action space and unknown dynamics. This class of problems are typically addressed in stochastic adaptive control and reinforcement learning literature using model-based and model-free approaches respectively. Both methods rely on solving a dynamic programming problem, either directly or indirectly, for finding the optimal closed loop control policy. The inherent `curse of dimensionality' associated with dynamic programming method makes these approaches also computationally difficult. This paper proposes a novel decoupled data-based control (D2C) algorithm that addresses this problem using a decoupled, `open loop - closed loop', approach. First, an open-loop deterministic trajectory optimization problem is solved using a black-box simulation model of the dynamical system. Then, a closed loop control is developed around this open loop trajectory by linearization of the dynamics about this nominal trajectory. By virtue of linearization, a linear quadratic regulator based algorithm can be used for this closed loop control. We show that the performance of D2C algorithm is approximately optimal. Moreover, simulation performance suggests significant reduction in training time compared to other state of the art algorithms. 

Title: Scalable Multi-Task Imitation Learning with Autonomous Improvement
Abstract:  While robot learning has demonstrated promising results for enabling robots to automatically acquire new skills, a critical challenge in deploying learning-based systems is scale: acquiring enough data for the robot to effectively generalize broadly. Imitation learning, in particular, has remained a stable and powerful approach for robot learning, but critically relies on expert operators for data collection. In this work, we target this challenge, aiming to build an imitation learning system that can continuously improve through autonomous data collection, while simultaneously avoiding the explicit use of reinforcement learning, to maintain the stability, simplicity, and scalability of supervised imitation. To accomplish this, we cast the problem of imitation with autonomous improvement into a multi-task setting. We utilize the insight that, in a multi-task setting, a failed attempt at one task might represent a successful attempt at another task. This allows us to leverage the robot's own trials as demonstrations for tasks other than the one that the robot actually attempted. Using an initial dataset of multi-task demonstration data, the robot autonomously collects trials which are only sparsely labeled with a binary indication of whether the trial accomplished any useful task or not. We then embed the trials into a learned latent space of tasks, trained using only the initial demonstration dataset, to draw similarities between various trials, enabling the robot to achieve one-shot generalization to new tasks. In contrast to prior imitation learning approaches, our method can autonomously collect data with sparse supervision for continuous improvement, and in contrast to reinforcement learning algorithms, our method can effectively improve from sparse, task-agnostic reward signals. 

Title: MaskFusion: Real-Time Recognition, Tracking and Reconstruction of Multiple Moving Objects
Abstract:  We present MaskFusion, a real-time, object-aware, semantic and dynamic RGB-D SLAM system that goes beyond traditional systems which output a purely geometric map of a static scene. MaskFusion recognizes, segments and assigns semantic class labels to different objects in the scene, while tracking and reconstructing them even when they move independently from the camera. As an RGB-D camera scans a cluttered scene, image-based instance-level semantic segmentation creates semantic object masks that enable real-time object recognition and the creation of an object-level representation for the world map. Unlike previous recognition-based SLAM systems, MaskFusion does not require known models of the objects it can recognize, and can deal with multiple independent motions. MaskFusion takes full advantage of using instance-level semantic segmentation to enable semantic labels to be fused into an object-aware map, unlike recent semantics enabled SLAM systems that perform voxel-level semantic segmentation. We show augmented-reality applications that demonstrate the unique features of the map output by MaskFusion: instance-aware, semantic and dynamic. 

Title: Affordable Modular Autonomous Vehicle Development Platform
Abstract:  Road accidents are estimated to be the ninth leading cause of death across all age groups globally. 1.25 million people die annually from road accidents and Africa has the highest rate of road fatalities [1]. Research shows that three out of five road accidents are caused by driver-related behavioral factors [2]. Self-driving technology has the potential of saving lives lost to these preventable road accidents. Africa accounts for the majority of road fatalities and as such would benefit immensely from this technology. However, financial constraints prevent viable experimentation and research into self-driving technology in Africa. This paper describes the design of RollE, an affordable modular autonomous vehicle development platform. It is capable of driving via remote control for data collection and also capable of autonomous driving using a convolutional neural network. This system is aimed at providing students and researchers with an affordable autonomous vehicle to develop and test self-driving car technology. 

Title: Kitting in the Wild through Online Domain Adaptation
Abstract:  Technological developments call for increasing perception and action capabilities of robots. Among other skills, vision systems that can adapt to any possible change in the working conditions are needed. Since these conditions are unpredictable, we need benchmarks which allow to assess the generalization and robustness capabilities of our visual recognition algorithms. In this work we focus on robotic kitting in unconstrained scenarios. As a first contribution, we present a new visual dataset for the kitting task. Differently from standard object recognition datasets, we provide images of the same objects acquired under various conditions where camera, illumination and background are changed. This novel dataset allows for testing the robustness of robot visual recognition algorithms to a series of different domain shifts both in isolation and unified. Our second contribution is a novel online adaptation algorithm for deep models, based on batch-normalization layers, which allows to continuously adapt a model to the current working conditions. Differently from standard domain adaptation algorithms, it does not require any image from the target domain at training time. We benchmark the performance of the algorithm on the proposed dataset, showing its capability to fill the gap between the performances of a standard architecture and its counterpart adapted offline to the given target domain. 

Title: Structured Hough Voting for Vision-based Highway Border Detection
Abstract:  We propose a vision-based highway border detection algorithm using structured Hough voting. Our approach takes advantage of the geometric relationship between highway road borders and highway lane markings. It uses a strategy where a number of trained road border and lane marking detectors are triggered, followed by Hough voting to generate corresponding detection of the border and lane marking. Since the initially triggered detectors usually result in large number of positives, conventional frame-wise Hough voting is not able to always generate robust border and lane marking results. Therefore, we formulate this problem as a joint detection-and-tracking problem under the structured Hough voting model, where tracking refers to exploiting inter-frame structural information to stabilize the detection results. Both qualitative and quantitative evaluations show the superiority of the proposed structured Hough voting model over a number of baseline methods. 

Title: Goal-Directed Behavior under Variational Predictive Coding: Dynamic Organization of Visual Attention and Working Memory
Abstract:  Mental simulation is a critical cognitive function for goal-directed behavior because it is essential for assessing actions and their consequences. When a self-generated or externally specified goal is given, a sequence of actions that is most likely to attain that goal is selected among other candidates via mental simulation. Therefore, better mental simulation leads to better goal-directed action planning. However, developing a mental simulation model is challenging because it requires knowledge of self and the environment. The current paper studies how adequate goal-directed action plans of robots can be mentally generated by dynamically organizing top-down visual attention and visual working memory. For this purpose, we propose a neural network model based on variational Bayes predictive coding, where goal-directed action planning is formulated by Bayesian inference of latent intentional space. Our experimental results showed that cognitively meaningful competencies, such as autonomous top-down attention to the robot end effector (its hand) as well as dynamic organization of occlusion-free visual working memory, emerged. Furthermore, our analysis of comparative experiments indicated that introduction of visual working memory and the inference mechanism using variational Bayes predictive coding significantly improve the performance in planning adequate goal-directed actions. 

Title: VIME: Variational Information Maximizing Exploration
Abstract:  Scalable and effective exploration remains a key challenge in reinforcement learning (RL). While there are methods with optimality guarantees in the setting of discrete state and action spaces, these methods cannot be applied in high-dimensional deep RL scenarios. As such, most contemporary RL relies on simple heuristics such as epsilon-greedy exploration or adding Gaussian noise to the controls. This paper introduces Variational Information Maximizing Exploration (VIME), an exploration strategy based on maximization of information gain about the agent's belief of environment dynamics. We propose a practical implementation, using variational inference in Bayesian neural networks which efficiently handles continuous state and action spaces. VIME modifies the MDP reward function, and can be applied with several different underlying RL algorithms. We demonstrate that VIME achieves significantly better performance compared to heuristic exploration methods across a variety of continuous control tasks and algorithms, including tasks with very sparse rewards. 

Title: A Learnable Safety Measure
Abstract:  Failures are challenging for learning to control physical systems since they risk damage, time-consuming resets, and often provide little gradient information. Adding safety constraints to exploration typically requires a lot of prior knowledge and domain expertise. We present a safety measure which implicitly captures how the system dynamics relate to a set of failure states. Not only can this measure be used as a safety function, but also to directly compute the set of safe state-action pairs. Further, we show a model-free approach to learn this measure by active sampling using Gaussian processes. While safety can only be guaranteed after learning the safety measure, we show that failures can already be greatly reduced by using the estimated measure during learning. 

Title: Robobarista: Learning to Manipulate Novel Objects via Deep Multimodal Embedding
Abstract:  There is a large variety of objects and appliances in human environments, such as stoves, coffee dispensers, juice extractors, and so on. It is challenging for a roboticist to program a robot for each of these object types and for each of their instantiations. In this work, we present a novel approach to manipulation planning based on the idea that many household objects share similarly-operated object parts. We formulate the manipulation planning as a structured prediction problem and learn to transfer manipulation strategy across different objects by embedding point-cloud, natural language, and manipulation trajectory data into a shared embedding space using a deep neural network. In order to learn semantically meaningful spaces throughout our network, we introduce a method for pre-training its lower layers for multimodal feature embedding and a method for fine-tuning this embedding space using a loss-based margin. In order to collect a large number of manipulation demonstrations for different objects, we develop a new crowd-sourcing platform called Robobarista. We test our model on our dataset consisting of 116 objects and appliances with 249 parts along with 250 language instructions, for which there are 1225 crowd-sourced manipulation demonstrations. We further show that our robot with our model can even prepare a cup of a latte with appliances it has never seen before. 

Title: Intensity Scan Context: Coding Intensity and Geometry Relations for Loop Closure Detection
Abstract:  Loop closure detection is an essential and challenging problem in simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). It is often tackled with light detection and ranging (LiDAR) sensor due to its view-point and illumination invariant properties. Existing works on 3D loop closure detection often leverage the matching of local or global geometrical-only descriptors, but without considering the intensity reading. In this paper we explore the intensity property from LiDAR scan and show that it can be effective for place recognition. Concretely, we propose a novel global descriptor, intensity scan context (ISC), that explores both geometry and intensity characteristics. To improve the efficiency for loop closure detection, an efficient two-stage hierarchical re-identification process is proposed, including a binary-operation based fast geometric relation retrieval and an intensity structure re-identification. Thorough experiments including both local experiment and public datasets test have been conducted to evaluate the performance of the proposed method. Our method achieves higher recall rate and recall precision than existing geometric-only methods. 

Title: Beyond Pixels: Leveraging Geometry and Shape Cues for Online Multi-Object Tracking
Abstract:  This paper introduces geometry and object shape and pose costs for multi-object tracking in urban driving scenarios. Using images from a monocular camera alone, we devise pairwise costs for object tracks, based on several 3D cues such as object pose, shape, and motion. The proposed costs are agnostic to the data association method and can be incorporated into any optimization framework to output the pairwise data associations. These costs are easy to implement, can be computed in real-time, and complement each other to account for possible errors in a tracking-by-detection framework. We perform an extensive analysis of the designed costs and empirically demonstrate consistent improvement over the state-of-the-art under varying conditions that employ a range of object detectors, exhibit a variety in camera and object motions, and, more importantly, are not reliant on the choice of the association framework. We also show that, by using the simplest of associations frameworks (two-frame Hungarian assignment), we surpass the state-of-the-art in multi-object-tracking on road scenes. More qualitative and quantitative results can be found at the following URL: https://junaidcs032.github.io/Geometry_ObjectShape_MOT/. 

Title: Composing Task-Agnostic Policies with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  The composition of elementary behaviors to solve challenging transfer learning problems is one of the key elements in building intelligent machines. To date, there has been plenty of work on learning task-specific policies or skills but almost no focus on composing necessary, task-agnostic skills to find a solution to new problems. In this paper, we propose a novel deep reinforcement learning-based skill transfer and composition method that takes the agent's primitive policies to solve unseen tasks. We evaluate our method in difficult cases where training policy through standard reinforcement learning (RL) or even hierarchical RL is either not feasible or exhibits high sample complexity. We show that our method not only transfers skills to new problem settings but also solves the challenging environments requiring both task planning and motion control with high data efficiency. 

Title: Autonomous Braking and Throttle System: A Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach for Naturalistic Driving
Abstract:  Autonomous Braking and Throttle control is key in developing safe driving systems for the future. There exists a need for autonomous vehicles to negotiate a multi-agent environment while ensuring safety and comfort. A Deep Reinforcement Learning based autonomous throttle and braking system is presented. For each time step, the proposed system makes a decision to apply the brake or throttle. The throttle and brake are modelled as continuous action space values. We demonstrate 2 scenarios where there is a need for a sophisticated braking and throttle system, i.e when there is a static obstacle in front of our agent like a car, stop sign. The second scenario consists of 2 vehicles approaching an intersection. The policies for brake and throttle control are learned through computer simulation using Deep deterministic policy gradients. The experiment shows that the system not only avoids a collision, but also it ensures that there is smooth change in the values of throttle/brake as it gets out of the emergency situation and abides by the speed regulations, i.e the system resembles human driving. 

Title: Fast Robot Arm Inverse Kinematics and Path Planning Under Complex Static and Dynamic Obstacle Constraints
Abstract:  Described here is a simple, reliable, and quite general method for rapid computation of robot arm inverse kinematic solutions and motion path plans in the presence of complex obstructions. The method derived from the MSC (map-seeking circuit) algorithm, optimized to exploit the characteristics of practical arm configurations. The representation naturally incorporates both arm and obstacle geometries. The consequent performance on modern hardware is suitable for applications requiring real-time response, including smooth continuous avoidance of dynamic obstacles which impinge on the planned path during the traversal of the arm. On high-end GPGPU hardware computation of both final pose for an 8 DOF arm and a smooth obstacle-avoiding motion path to that pose takes approximately 200-300msec depending on the number of waypoints implemented. The mathematics of the method is accessible to high school seniors, making it suitable for broad instruction. [Note: This revision includes a general compute strategy for paths from arbitrary pose to arbitrary pose and a compute strategy for continuous motion mid-course avoidance of dynamic obstacles.] 

Title: An Interactive Control Approach to 3D Shape Reconstruction
Abstract:  The ability to accurately reconstruct the 3D facets of a scene is one of the key problems in robotic vision. However, even with recent advances with machine learning, there is no high-fidelity universal 3D reconstruction method for this optimization problem as schemes often cater to specific image modalities and are often biased by scene abnormalities. Simply put, there always remains an information gap due to the dynamic nature of real-world scenarios. To this end, we demonstrate a feedback control framework which invokes operator inputs (also prone to errors) in order to augment existing reconstruction schemes. For proof-of-concept, we choose a classical region-based stereoscopic reconstruction approach and show how an ill-posed model can be augmented with operator input to be much more robust to scene artifacts. We provide necessary conditions for stability via Lyapunov analysis and perhaps more importantly, we show that the stability depends on a notion of absolute curvature. Mathematically, this aligns with previous work that has shown Ricci curvature as proxy for functional robustness of dynamical networked systems. We conclude with results that show how our method can improve standalone reconstruction schemes. 

Title: MVP: Unified Motion and Visual Self-Supervised Learning for Large-Scale Robotic Navigation
Abstract:  Autonomous navigation emerges from both motion and local visual perception in real-world environments. However, most successful robotic motion estimation methods (e.g. VO, SLAM, SfM) and vision systems (e.g. CNN, visual place recognition-VPR) are often separately used for mapping and localization tasks. Conversely, recent reinforcement learning (RL) based methods for visual navigation rely on the quality of GPS data reception, which may not be reliable when directly using it as ground truth across multiple, month-spaced traversals in large environments. In this paper, we propose a novel motion and visual perception approach, dubbed MVP, that unifies these two sensor modalities for large-scale, target-driven navigation tasks. Our MVP-based method can learn faster, and is more accurate and robust to both extreme environmental changes and poor GPS data than corresponding vision-only navigation methods. MVP temporally incorporates compact image representations, obtained using VPR, with optimized motion estimation data, including but not limited to those from VO or optimized radar odometry (RO), to efficiently learn self-supervised navigation policies via RL. We evaluate our method on two large real-world datasets, Oxford Robotcar and Nordland Railway, over a range of weather (e.g. overcast, night, snow, sun, rain, clouds) and seasonal (e.g. winter, spring, fall, summer) conditions using the new CityLearn framework; an interactive environment for efficiently training navigation agents. Our experimental results, on traversals of the Oxford RobotCar dataset with no GPS data, show that MVP can achieve 53% and 93% navigation success rate using VO and RO, respectively, compared to 7% for a vision-only method. We additionally report a trade-off between the RL success rate and the motion estimation precision. 

Title: Aerial Animal Biometrics: Individual Friesian Cattle Recovery and Visual Identification via an Autonomous UAV with Onboard Deep Inference
Abstract:  This paper describes a computationally-enhanced M100 UAV platform with an onboard deep learning inference system for integrated computer vision and navigation able to autonomously find and visually identify by coat pattern individual Holstein Friesian cattle in freely moving herds. We propose an approach that utilises three deep convolutional neural network architectures running live onboard the aircraft; that is, a YoloV2-based species detector, a dual-stream CNN delivering exploratory agency and an InceptionV3-based biometric LRCN for individual animal identification. We evaluate the performance of each of the components offline, and also online via real-world field tests comprising 146.7 minutes of autonomous low altitude flight in a farm environment over a dispersed herd of 17 heifer dairy cows. We report error-free identification performance on this online experiment. The presented proof-of-concept system is the first of its kind and a successful step towards autonomous biometric identification of individual animals from the air in open pasture environments for tag-less AI support in farming and ecology. 

Title: Learning from Scarce Experience
Abstract:  Searching the space of policies directly for the optimal policy has been one popular method for solving partially observable reinforcement learning problems. Typically, with each change of the target policy, its value is estimated from the results of following that very policy. This requires a large number of interactions with the environment as different polices are considered. We present a family of algorithms based on likelihood ratio estimation that use data gathered when executing one policy (or collection of policies) to estimate the value of a different policy. The algorithms combine estimation and optimization stages. The former utilizes experience to build a non-parametric representation of an optimized function. The latter performs optimization on this estimate. We show positive empirical results and provide the sample complexity bound. 

Title: Evaluation of 3D CNN Semantic Mapping for Rover Navigation
Abstract:  Terrain assessment is a key aspect for autonomous exploration rovers, surrounding environment recognition is required for multiple purposes, such as optimal trajectory planning and autonomous target identification. In this work we present a technique to generate accurate three-dimensional semantic maps for Martian environment. The algorithm uses as input a stereo image acquired by a camera mounted on a rover. Firstly, images are labeled with DeepLabv3+, which is an encoder-decoder Convolutional Neural Networl (CNN). Then, the labels obtained by the semantic segmentation are combined to stereo depth-maps in a Voxel representation. We evaluate our approach on the ESA Katwijk Beach Planetary Rover Dataset. 

Title: Learning to Represent Haptic Feedback for Partially-Observable Tasks
Abstract:  The sense of touch, being the earliest sensory system to develop in a human body [1], plays a critical part of our daily interaction with the environment. In order to successfully complete a task, many manipulation interactions require incorporating haptic feedback. However, manually designing a feedback mechanism can be extremely challenging. In this work, we consider manipulation tasks that need to incorporate tactile sensor feedback in order to modify a provided nominal plan. To incorporate partial observation, we present a new framework that models the task as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP) and learns an appropriate representation of haptic feedback which can serve as the state for a POMDP model. The model, that is parametrized by deep recurrent neural networks, utilizes variational Bayes methods to optimize the approximate posterior. Finally, we build on deep Q-learning to be able to select the optimal action in each state without access to a simulator. We test our model on a PR2 robot for multiple tasks of turning a knob until it clicks. 

Title: Automatic Model Based Dataset Generation for Fast and Accurate Crop and Weeds Detection
Abstract:  Selective weeding is one of the key challenges in the field of agriculture robotics. To accomplish this task, a farm robot should be able to accurately detect plants and to distinguish them between crop and weeds. Most of the promising state-of-the-art approaches make use of appearance-based models trained on large annotated datasets. Unfortunately, creating large agricultural datasets with pixel-level annotations is an extremely time consuming task, actually penalizing the usage of data-driven techniques. In this paper, we face this problem by proposing a novel and effective approach that aims to dramatically minimize the human intervention needed to train the detection and classification algorithms. The idea is to procedurally generate large synthetic training datasets randomizing the key features of the target environment (i.e., crop and weed species, type of soil, light conditions). More specifically, by tuning these model parameters, and exploiting a few real-world textures, it is possible to render a large amount of realistic views of an artificial agricultural scenario with no effort. The generated data can be directly used to train the model or to supplement real-world images. We validate the proposed methodology by using as testbed a modern deep learning based image segmentation architecture. We compare the classification results obtained using both real and synthetic images as training data. The reported results confirm the effectiveness and the potentiality of our approach. 

Title: Attention-based Active Visual Search for Mobile Robots
Abstract:  We present an active visual search model for finding objects in unknown environments. The proposed algorithm guides the robot towards the sought object using the relevant stimuli provided by the visual sensors. Existing search strategies are either purely reactive or use simplified sensor models that do not exploit all the visual information available. In this paper, we propose a new model that actively extracts visual information via visual attention techniques and, in conjunction with a non-myopic decision-making algorithm, leads the robot to search more relevant areas of the environment. The attention module couples both top-down and bottom-up attention models enabling the robot to search regions with higher importance first. The proposed algorithm is evaluated on a mobile robot platform in a 3D simulated environment. The results indicate that the use of visual attention significantly improves search, but the degree of improvement depends on the nature of the task and the complexity of the environment. In our experiments, we found that performance enhancements of up to 42\% in structured and 38\% in highly unstructured cluttered environments can be achieved using visual attention mechanisms. 

Title: Mining Minimal Map-Segments for Visual Place Classifiers
Abstract:  In visual place recognition (VPR), map segmentation (MS) is a preprocessing technique used to partition a given view-sequence map into place classes (i.e., map segments) so that each class has good place-specific training images for a visual place classifier (VPC). Existing approaches to MS implicitly/explicitly suppose that map segments have a certain size, or individual map segments are balanced in size. However, recent VPR systems showed that very small important map segments (minimal map segments) often suffice for VPC, and the remaining large unimportant portion of the map should be discarded to minimize map maintenance cost. Here, a new MS algorithm that can mine minimal map segments from a large view-sequence map is presented. To solve the inherently NP hard problem, MS is formulated as a video-segmentation problem and the efficient point-trajectory based paradigm of video segmentation is used. The proposed map representation was implemented with three types of VPC: deep convolutional neural network, bag-of-words, and object class detector, and each was integrated into a Monte Carlo localization algorithm (MCL) within a topometric VPR framework. Experiments using the publicly available NCLT dataset thoroughly investigate the efficacy of MS in terms of VPR performance. 

Title: Neural Network Based Reinforcement Learning for Audio-Visual Gaze Control in Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract:  This paper introduces a novel neural network-based reinforcement learning approach for robot gaze control. Our approach enables a robot to learn and to adapt its gaze control strategy for human-robot interaction neither with the use of external sensors nor with human supervision. The robot learns to focus its attention onto groups of people from its own audio-visual experiences, independently of the number of people, of their positions and of their physical appearances. In particular, we use a recurrent neural network architecture in combination with Q-learning to find an optimal action-selection policy; we pre-train the network using a simulated environment that mimics realistic scenarios that involve speaking/silent participants, thus avoiding the need of tedious sessions of a robot interacting with people. Our experimental evaluation suggests that the proposed method is robust against parameter estimation, i.e. the parameter values yielded by the method do not have a decisive impact on the performance. The best results are obtained when both audio and visual information is jointly used. Experiments with the Nao robot indicate that our framework is a step forward towards the autonomous learning of socially acceptable gaze behavior. 

Title: A 3D Face Modelling Approach for Pose-Invariant Face Recognition in a Human-Robot Environment
Abstract:  Face analysis techniques have become a crucial component of human-machine interaction in the fields of assistive and humanoid robotics. However, the variations in head-pose that arise naturally in these environments are still a great challenge. In this paper, we present a real-time capable 3D face modelling framework for 2D in-the-wild images that is applicable for robotics. The fitting of the 3D Morphable Model is based exclusively on automatically detected landmarks. After fitting, the face can be corrected in pose and transformed back to a frontal 2D representation that is more suitable for face recognition. We conduct face recognition experiments with non-frontal images from the MUCT database and uncontrolled, in the wild images from the PaSC database, the most challenging face recognition database to date, showing an improved performance. Finally, we present our SCITOS G5 robot system, which incorporates our framework as a means of image pre-processing for face analysis. 

Title: Exploring Pose Priors for Human Pose Estimation with Joint Angle Representations
Abstract:  Pose Priors are critical in human pose estimation, since they are able to enforce constraints that prevent estimated poses from tending to physically impossible positions. Human pose generally consists of up to 22 Joint Angles of various segments, and their respective bone lengths, but the way these various segments interact can affect the validity of a pose. Looking at the Knee-Ankle segment alone, we can observe that clearly, the Knee cannot bend forward beyond it's roughly 90 degree point, amongst various other impossible poses below. 

Title: Can a Compact Neuronal Circuit Policy be Re-purposed to Learn Simple Robotic Control?
Abstract:  We propose a neural information processing system which is obtained by re-purposing the function of a biological neural circuit model, to govern simulated and real-world control tasks. Inspired by the structure of the nervous system of the soil-worm, C. elegans, we introduce Neuronal Circuit Policies (NCPs), defined as the model of biological neural circuits reparameterized for the control of an alternative task. We learn instances of NCPs to control a series of robotic tasks, including the autonomous parking of a real-world rover robot. For reconfiguration of the purpose of the neural circuit, we adopt a search-based optimization algorithm. Neuronal circuit policies perform on par and in some cases surpass the performance of contemporary deep learning models with the advantage leveraging significantly fewer learnable parameters and realizing interpretable dynamics at the cell-level. 

Title: Towards Learning to Perceive and Reason About Liquids
Abstract:  Recent advances in AI and robotics have claimed many incredible results with deep learning, yet no work to date has applied deep learning to the problem of liquid perception and reasoning. In this paper, we apply fully-convolutional deep neural networks to the tasks of detecting and tracking liquids. We evaluate three models: a single-frame network, multi-frame network, and a LSTM recurrent network. Our results show that the best liquid detection results are achieved when aggregating data over multiple frames and that the LSTM network outperforms the other two in both tasks. This suggests that LSTM-based neural networks have the potential to be a key component for enabling robots to handle liquids using robust, closed-loop controllers. 

Title: Can We Trust You? On Calibration of a Probabilistic Object Detector for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Reliable uncertainty estimation is crucial for perception systems in safe autonomous driving. Recently, many methods have been proposed to model uncertainties in deep learning based object detectors. However, the estimated probabilities are often uncalibrated, which may lead to severe problems in safety critical scenarios. In this work, we identify such uncertainty miscalibration problems in a probabilistic LiDAR 3D object detection network, and propose three practical methods to significantly reduce errors in uncertainty calibration. Extensive experiments on several datasets show that our methods produce well-calibrated uncertainties, and generalize well between different datasets. 

Title: 3D Object Segmentation for Shelf Bin Picking by Humanoid with Deep Learning and Occupancy Voxel Grid Map
Abstract:  Picking objects in a narrow space such as shelf bins is an important task for humanoid to extract target object from environment. In those situations, however, there are many occlusions between the camera and objects, and this makes it difficult to segment the target object three dimensionally because of the lack of three dimentional sensor inputs. We address this problem with accumulating segmentation result with multiple camera angles, and generating voxel model of the target object. Our approach consists of two components: first is object probability prediction for input image with convolutional networks, and second is generating voxel grid map which is designed for object segmentation. We evaluated the method with the picking task experiment for target objects in narrow shelf bins. Our method generates dense 3D object segments even with occlusions, and the real robot successfuly picked target objects from the narrow space. 

Title: Hierarchical Multi-Process Fusion for Visual Place Recognition
Abstract:  Combining multiple complementary techniques together has long been regarded as a way to improve performance. In visual localization, multi-sensor fusion, multi-process fusion of a single sensing modality, and even combinations of different localization techniques have been shown to result in improved performance. However, merely fusing together different localization techniques does not account for the varying performance characteristics of different localization techniques. In this paper we present a novel, hierarchical localization system that explicitly benefits from three varying characteristics of localization techniques: the distribution of their localization hypotheses, their appearance- and viewpoint-invariant properties, and the resulting differences in where in an environment each system works well and fails. We show how two techniques deployed hierarchically work better than in parallel fusion, how combining two different techniques works better than two levels of a single technique, even when the single technique has superior individual performance, and develop two and three-tier hierarchical structures that progressively improve localization performance. Finally, we develop a stacked hierarchical framework where localization hypotheses from techniques with complementary characteristics are concatenated at each layer, significantly improving retention of the correct hypothesis through to the final localization stage. Using two challenging datasets, we show the proposed system outperforming state-of-the-art techniques. 

Title: Machine Learning and System Identification for Estimation in Physical Systems
Abstract:  In this thesis, we draw inspiration from both classical system identification and modern machine learning in order to solve estimation problems for real-world, physical systems. The main approach to estimation and learning adopted is optimization based. Concepts such as regularization will be utilized for encoding of prior knowledge and basis-function expansions will be used to add nonlinear modeling power while keeping data requirements practical. The thesis covers a wide range of applications, many inspired by applications within robotics, but also extending outside this already wide field. Usage of the proposed methods and algorithms are in many cases illustrated in the real-world applications that motivated the research. Topics covered include dynamics modeling and estimation, model-based reinforcement learning, spectral estimation, friction modeling and state estimation and calibration in robotic machining. In the work on modeling and identification of dynamics, we develop regularization strategies that allow us to incorporate prior domain knowledge into flexible, overparameterized models. We make use of classical control theory to gain insight into training and regularization while using flexible tools from modern deep learning. A particular focus of the work is to allow use of modern methods in scenarios where gathering data is associated with a high cost. In the robotics-inspired parts of the thesis, we develop methods that are practically motivated and ensure that they are implementable also outside the research setting. We demonstrate this by performing experiments in realistic settings and providing open-source implementations of all proposed methods and algorithms. 

Title: PiP: Planning-informed Trajectory Prediction for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  It is critical to predict the motion of surrounding vehicles for self-driving planning, especially in a socially compliant and flexible way. However, future prediction is challenging due to the interaction and uncertainty in driving behaviors. We propose planning-informed trajectory prediction (PiP) to tackle the prediction problem in the multi-agent setting. Our approach is differentiated from the traditional manner of prediction, which is only based on historical information and decoupled with planning. By informing the prediction process with the planning of ego vehicle, our method achieves the state-of-the-art performance of multi-agent forecasting on highway datasets. Moreover, our approach enables a novel pipeline which couples the prediction and planning, by conditioning PiP on multiple candidate trajectories of the ego vehicle, which is highly beneficial for autonomous driving in interactive scenarios. 

Title: Robustness via Retrying: Closed-Loop Robotic Manipulation with Self-Supervised Learning
Abstract:  Prediction is an appealing objective for self-supervised learning of behavioral skills, particularly for autonomous robots. However, effectively utilizing predictive models for control, especially with raw image inputs, poses a number of major challenges. How should the predictions be used? What happens when they are inaccurate? In this paper, we tackle these questions by proposing a method for learning robotic skills from raw image observations, using only autonomously collected experience. We show that even an imperfect model can complete complex tasks if it can continuously retry, but this requires the model to not lose track of the objective (e.g., the object of interest). To enable a robot to continuously retry a task, we devise a self-supervised algorithm for learning image registration, which can keep track of objects of interest for the duration of the trial. We demonstrate that this idea can be combined with a video-prediction based controller to enable complex behaviors to be learned from scratch using only raw visual inputs, including grasping, repositioning objects, and non-prehensile manipulation. Our real-world experiments demonstrate that a model trained with 160 robot hours of autonomously collected, unlabeled data is able to successfully perform complex manipulation tasks with a wide range of objects not seen during training. 

Title: Simulating Structure-from-Motion
Abstract:  The implementation of a Structure-from-Motion (SfM) pipeline from a synthetically generated scene as well as the investigation of the faithfulness of diverse reconstructions is the subject of this project. A series of different SfM reconstructions are implemented and their camera pose estimations are being contrasted with their respective ground truth locations. Finally, injection of ground truth location data into the rendered images in order to reduce the estimation error of the camera poses is studied as well. 

Title: Relative Pose Estimation for Multi-Camera Systems from Affine Correspondences
Abstract:  We propose four novel solvers for estimating the relative pose of a multi-camera system from affine correspondences (ACs). A new constraint is derived interpreting the relationship of ACs and the generalized camera model. Using the constraint, it is shown that a minimum of two ACs are enough for recovering the 6DOF relative pose, i.e., 3D rotation and translation, of the system. Considering planar camera motion, we propose a minimal solution using a single AC and a solver with two ACs to overcome the degenerate case. Also, we propose a minimal solution using two ACs with known gravity vector, e.g., from an IMU. Since the proposed methods require significantly fewer correspondences than state-of-the-art algorithms, they can be efficiently used within RANSAC for outlier removal and initial motion estimation. The solvers are tested both on synthetic data and on real-world scenes from the KITTI benchmark. It is shown that the accuracy of the estimated poses is superior to the state-of-the-art techniques. 

Title: Learning how to learn: an adaptive dialogue agent for incrementally learning visually grounded word meanings
Abstract:  We present an optimised multi-modal dialogue agent for interactive learning of visually grounded word meanings from a human tutor, trained on real human-human tutoring data. Within a life-long interactive learning period, the agent, trained using Reinforcement Learning (RL), must be able to handle natural conversations with human users and achieve good learning performance (accuracy) while minimising human effort in the learning process. We train and evaluate this system in interaction with a simulated human tutor, which is built on the BURCHAK corpus -- a Human-Human Dialogue dataset for the visual learning task. The results show that: 1) The learned policy can coherently interact with the simulated user to achieve the goal of the task (i.e. learning visual attributes of objects, e.g. colour and shape); and 2) it finds a better trade-off between classifier accuracy and tutoring costs than hand-crafted rule-based policies, including ones with dynamic policies. 

Title: PoseRBPF: A Rao-Blackwellized Particle Filter for 6D Object Pose Tracking
Abstract:  Tracking 6D poses of objects from videos provides rich information to a robot in performing different tasks such as manipulation and navigation. In this work, we formulate the 6D object pose tracking problem in the Rao-Blackwellized particle filtering framework, where the 3D rotation and the 3D translation of an object are decoupled. This factorization allows our approach, called PoseRBPF, to efficiently estimate the 3D translation of an object along with the full distribution over the 3D rotation. This is achieved by discretizing the rotation space in a fine-grained manner, and training an auto-encoder network to construct a codebook of feature embeddings for the discretized rotations. As a result, PoseRBPF can track objects with arbitrary symmetries while still maintaining adequate posterior distributions. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art results on two 6D pose estimation benchmarks. A video showing the experiments can be found at https://youtu.be/lE5gjzRKWuA 

Title: One-Shot Imitation Learning
Abstract:  Imitation learning has been commonly applied to solve different tasks in isolation. This usually requires either careful feature engineering, or a significant number of samples. This is far from what we desire: ideally, robots should be able to learn from very few demonstrations of any given task, and instantly generalize to new situations of the same task, without requiring task-specific engineering. In this paper, we propose a meta-learning framework for achieving such capability, which we call one-shot imitation learning. Specifically, we consider the setting where there is a very large set of tasks, and each task has many instantiations. For example, a task could be to stack all blocks on a table into a single tower, another task could be to place all blocks on a table into two-block towers, etc. In each case, different instances of the task would consist of different sets of blocks with different initial states. At training time, our algorithm is presented with pairs of demonstrations for a subset of all tasks. A neural net is trained that takes as input one demonstration and the current state (which initially is the initial state of the other demonstration of the pair), and outputs an action with the goal that the resulting sequence of states and actions matches as closely as possible with the second demonstration. At test time, a demonstration of a single instance of a new task is presented, and the neural net is expected to perform well on new instances of this new task. The use of soft attention allows the model to generalize to conditions and tasks unseen in the training data. We anticipate that by training this model on a much greater variety of tasks and settings, we will obtain a general system that can turn any demonstrations into robust policies that can accomplish an overwhelming variety of tasks. Videos available at https://bit.ly/nips2017-oneshot . 

Title: Deep Learning for Detecting Robotic Grasps
Abstract:  We consider the problem of detecting robotic grasps in an RGB-D view of a scene containing objects. In this work, we apply a deep learning approach to solve this problem, which avoids time-consuming hand-design of features. This presents two main challenges. First, we need to evaluate a huge number of candidate grasps. In order to make detection fast, as well as robust, we present a two-step cascaded structure with two deep networks, where the top detections from the first are re-evaluated by the second. The first network has fewer features, is faster to run, and can effectively prune out unlikely candidate grasps. The second, with more features, is slower but has to run only on the top few detections. Second, we need to handle multimodal inputs well, for which we present a method to apply structured regularization on the weights based on multimodal group regularization. We demonstrate that our method outperforms the previous state-of-the-art methods in robotic grasp detection, and can be used to successfully execute grasps on two different robotic platforms. 

Title: A Collaborative Framework for High-Definition Mapping
Abstract:  For connected vehicles to have a substantial effect on road safety, it is required that accurate positions and trajectories can be shared. To this end, all vehicles must be accurately geolocalized in a common frame. This can be achieved by merging GNSS (Global Navigation Satellite System) information and visual observations matched with a map of geo-positioned landmarks. Building such a map remains a challenge, and current solutions are facing strong cost-related limitations. We present a collaborative framework for high-definition mapping, in which vehicles equipped with standard sensors, such as a GNSS receiver and a mono-visual camera, update a map of geolocalized landmarks. Our system is composed of two processing blocks: the first one is embedded in each vehicle, and aims at geolocalizing the vehicle and the detected feature marks. The second is operated on cloud servers, and uses observations from all the vehicles to compute updates for the map of geo-positioned landmarks. As the map's landmarks are detected and positioned by more and more vehicles, the accuracy of the map increases, eventually converging in probability towards a null error. The landmarks geo-positions are estimated in a stable and scalable way, enabling to provide dynamic map updates in an automatic manner. 

Title: Dense 3D Object Reconstruction from a Single Depth View
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a novel approach, 3D-RecGAN++, which reconstructs the complete 3D structure of a given object from a single arbitrary depth view using generative adversarial networks. Unlike existing work which typically requires multiple views of the same object or class labels to recover the full 3D geometry, the proposed 3D-RecGAN++ only takes the voxel grid representation of a depth view of the object as input, and is able to generate the complete 3D occupancy grid with a high resolution of 256^3 by recovering the occluded/missing regions. The key idea is to combine the generative capabilities of autoencoders and the conditional Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) framework, to infer accurate and fine-grained 3D structures of objects in high-dimensional voxel space. Extensive experiments on large synthetic datasets and real-world Kinect datasets show that the proposed 3D-RecGAN++ significantly outperforms the state of the art in single view 3D object reconstruction, and is able to reconstruct unseen types of objects. 

Title: An Objectness Score for Accurate and Fast Detection during Navigation
Abstract:  We propose a novel method utilizing an objectness score for maintaining the locations and classes of objects detected from Mask R-CNN during mobile robot navigation. The objectness score is defined to measure how well the detector identifies the locations and classes of objects during navigation. Specifically, it is designed to increase when there is sufficient distance between a detected object and the camera. During the navigation process, we transform the locations of objects in 3D world coordinates into 2D image coordinates through an affine projection and decide whether to retain the classes of detected objects using the objectness score. We conducted experiments to determine how well the locations and classes of detected objects are maintained at various angles and positions. Experimental results showed that our approach is efficient and robust, regardless of changing angles and distances. 

Title: Memorable Maps: A Framework for Re-defining Places in Visual Place Recognition
Abstract:  This paper presents a cognition-inspired agnostic framework for building a map for Visual Place Recognition. This framework draws inspiration from human-memorability, utilizes the traditional image entropy concept and computes the static content in an image; thereby presenting a tri-folded criterion to assess the 'memorability' of an image for visual place recognition. A dataset namely 'ESSEX3IN1' is created, composed of highly confusing images from indoor, outdoor and natural scenes for analysis. When used in conjunction with state-of-the-art visual place recognition methods, the proposed framework provides significant performance boost to these techniques, as evidenced by results on ESSEX3IN1 and other public datasets. 

Title: 3D Simulation for Robot Arm Control with Deep Q-Learning
Abstract:  Recent trends in robot arm control have seen a shift towards end-to-end solutions, using deep reinforcement learning to learn a controller directly from raw sensor data, rather than relying on a hand-crafted, modular pipeline. However, the high dimensionality of the state space often means that it is impractical to generate sufficient training data with real-world experiments. As an alternative solution, we propose to learn a robot controller in simulation, with the potential of then transferring this to a real robot. Building upon the recent success of deep Q-networks, we present an approach which uses 3D simulations to train a 7-DOF robotic arm in a control task without any prior knowledge. The controller accepts images of the environment as its only input, and outputs motor actions for the task of locating and grasping a cube, over a range of initial configurations. To encourage efficient learning, a structured reward function is designed with intermediate rewards. We also present preliminary results in direct transfer of policies over to a real robot, without any further training. 

Title: A Hand Motion-guided Articulation and Segmentation Estimation
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a method for simultaneous articulation model estimation and segmentation of an articulated object in RGB-D images using human hand motion. Our method uses the hand motion in the processes of the initial articulation model estimation, ICP-based model parameter optimization, and region selection of the target object. The hand motion gives an initial guess of the articulation model: prismatic or revolute joint. The method estimates the joint parameters by aligning the RGB-D images with the constraint of the hand motion. Finally, the target regions are selected from the cluster regions which move symmetrically along with the articulation model. Our experimental results show the robustness of the proposed method for the various objects. 

Title: Learning a bidirectional mapping between human whole-body motion and natural language using deep recurrent neural networks
Abstract:  Linking human whole-body motion and natural language is of great interest for the generation of semantic representations of observed human behaviors as well as for the generation of robot behaviors based on natural language input. While there has been a large body of research in this area, most approaches that exist today require a symbolic representation of motions (e.g. in the form of motion primitives), which have to be defined a-priori or require complex segmentation algorithms. In contrast, recent advances in the field of neural networks and especially deep learning have demonstrated that sub-symbolic representations that can be learned end-to-end usually outperform more traditional approaches, for applications such as machine translation. In this paper we propose a generative model that learns a bidirectional mapping between human whole-body motion and natural language using deep recurrent neural networks (RNNs) and sequence-to-sequence learning. Our approach does not require any segmentation or manual feature engineering and learns a distributed representation, which is shared for all motions and descriptions. We evaluate our approach on 2,846 human whole-body motions and 6,187 natural language descriptions thereof from the KIT Motion-Language Dataset. Our results clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model: We show that our model generates a wide variety of realistic motions only from descriptions thereof in form of a single sentence. Conversely, our model is also capable of generating correct and detailed natural language descriptions from human motions. 

Title: A Survey of Deep Learning Techniques for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  The last decade witnessed increasingly rapid progress in self-driving vehicle technology, mainly backed up by advances in the area of deep learning and artificial intelligence. The objective of this paper is to survey the current state-of-the-art on deep learning technologies used in autonomous driving. We start by presenting AI-based self-driving architectures, convolutional and recurrent neural networks, as well as the deep reinforcement learning paradigm. These methodologies form a base for the surveyed driving scene perception, path planning, behavior arbitration and motion control algorithms. We investigate both the modular perception-planning-action pipeline, where each module is built using deep learning methods, as well as End2End systems, which directly map sensory information to steering commands. Additionally, we tackle current challenges encountered in designing AI architectures for autonomous driving, such as their safety, training data sources and computational hardware. The comparison presented in this survey helps to gain insight into the strengths and limitations of deep learning and AI approaches for autonomous driving and assist with design choices 

Title: Multi-Head Attention based Probabilistic Vehicle Trajectory Prediction
Abstract:  This paper presents online-capable deep learning model for probabilistic vehicle trajectory prediction. We propose a simple encoder-decoder architecture based on multi-head attention. The proposed model generates the distribution of the predicted trajectories for multiple vehicles in parallel. Our approach to model the interactions can learn to attend to a few influential vehicles in an unsupervised manner, which can improve the interpretability of the network. The experiments using naturalistic trajectories at highway show the clear improvement in terms of positional error on both longitudinal and lateral direction. 

Title: Human Body Orientation Estimation using Convolutional Neural Network
Abstract:  Personal robots are expected to interact with the user by recognizing the user's face. However, in most of the service robot applications, the user needs to move himself/herself to allow the robot to see him/her face to face. To overcome such limitations, a method for estimating human body orientation is required. Previous studies used various components such as feature extractors and classification models to classify the orientation which resulted in low performance. For a more robust and accurate approach, we propose the light weight convolutional neural networks, an end to end system, for estimating human body orientation. Our body orientation estimation model achieved 81.58% and 94% accuracy with the benchmark dataset and our own dataset respectively. The proposed method can be used in a wide range of service robot applications which depend on the ability to estimate human body orientation. To show its usefulness in service robot applications, we designed a simple robot application which allows the robot to move towards the user's frontal plane. With this, we demonstrated an improved face detection rate. 

Title: W-PoseNet: Dense Correspondence Regularized Pixel Pair Pose Regression
Abstract:  Solving 6D pose estimation is non-trivial to cope with intrinsic appearance and shape variation and severe inter-object occlusion, and is made more challenging in light of extrinsic large illumination changes and low quality of the acquired data under an uncontrolled environment. This paper introduces a novel pose estimation algorithm W-PoseNet, which densely regresses from input data to 6D pose and also 3D coordinates in model space. In other words, local features learned for pose regression in our deep network are regularized by explicitly learning pixel-wise correspondence mapping onto 3D pose-sensitive coordinates as an auxiliary task. Moreover, a sparse pair combination of pixel-wise features and soft voting on pixel-pair pose predictions are designed to improve robustness to inconsistent and sparse local features. Experiment results on the popular YCB-Video and LineMOD benchmarks show that the proposed W-PoseNet consistently achieves superior performance to the state-of-the-art algorithms. 

Title: Quantifying Teaching Behaviour in Robot Learning from Demonstration
Abstract:  Learning from demonstration allows for rapid deployment of robot manipulators to a great many tasks, by relying on a person showing the robot what to do rather than programming it. While this approach provides many opportunities, measuring, evaluating and improving the person's teaching ability has remained largely unexplored in robot manipulation research. To this end, a model for learning from demonstration is presented here which incorporates the teacher's understanding of, and influence on, the learner. The proposed model is used to clarify the teacher's objectives during learning from demonstration, providing new views on how teaching failures and efficiency can be defined. The benefit of this approach is shown in two experiments (N=30 and N=36, respectively), which highlight the difficulty teachers have in providing effective demonstrations, and show how ~169-180% improvement in teaching efficiency can be achieved through evaluation and feedback shaped by the proposed framework, relative to unguided teaching. 

Title: Metric Learning for Generalizing Spatial Relations to New Objects
Abstract:  Human-centered environments are rich with a wide variety of spatial relations between everyday objects. For autonomous robots to operate effectively in such environments, they should be able to reason about these relations and generalize them to objects with different shapes and sizes. For example, having learned to place a toy inside a basket, a robot should be able to generalize this concept using a spoon and a cup. This requires a robot to have the flexibility to learn arbitrary relations in a lifelong manner, making it challenging for an expert to pre-program it with sufficient knowledge to do so beforehand. In this paper, we address the problem of learning spatial relations by introducing a novel method from the perspective of distance metric learning. Our approach enables a robot to reason about the similarity between pairwise spatial relations, thereby enabling it to use its previous knowledge when presented with a new relation to imitate. We show how this makes it possible to learn arbitrary spatial relations from non-expert users using a small number of examples and in an interactive manner. Our extensive evaluation with real-world data demonstrates the effectiveness of our method in reasoning about a continuous spectrum of spatial relations and generalizing them to new objects. 

Title: Developmental Bayesian Optimization of Black-Box with Visual Similarity-Based Transfer Learning
Abstract:  We present a developmental framework based on a long-term memory and reasoning mechanisms (Vision Similarity and Bayesian Optimisation). This architecture allows a robot to optimize autonomously hyper-parameters that need to be tuned from any action and/or vision module, treated as a black-box. The learning can take advantage of past experiences (stored in the episodic and procedural memories) in order to warm-start the exploration using a set of hyper-parameters previously optimized from objects similar to the new unknown one (stored in a semantic memory). As example, the system has been used to optimized 9 continuous hyper-parameters of a professional software (Kamido) both in simulation and with a real robot (industrial robotic arm Fanuc) with a total of 13 different objects. The robot is able to find a good object-specific optimization in 68 (simulation) or 40 (real) trials. In simulation, we demonstrate the benefit of the transfer learning based on visual similarity, as opposed to an amnesic learning (i.e. learning from scratch all the time). Moreover, with the real robot, we show that the method consistently outperforms the manual optimization from an expert with less than 2 hours of training time to achieve more than 88% of success. 

Title: Hercules: An Autonomous Logistic Vehicle for Contact-less Goods Transportation During the COVID-19 Outbreak
Abstract:  Since December 2019, the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has spread rapidly across China. As at the date of writing this article, the disease has been globally reported in 100 countries, infected over 100,000 people and caused over 3,000 deaths. Avoiding person-to-person transmission is an effective approach to control and prevent the epidemic. However, many daily activities, such as logistics transporting goods in our daily life, inevitably involve person-to-person contact. To achieve contact-less goods transportation, using an autonomous logistic vehicle has become the preferred choice. This article presents Hercules, an autonomous logistic vehicle used for contact-less goods transportation during the outbreak of COVID-19. The vehicle is designed with autonomous navigation capability. We provide details on the hardware and software, as well as the algorithms to achieve autonomous navigation including perception, planning and control. This paper is accompanied by a demonstration video and a dataset, which are available here: https://sites.google.com/view/contact-less-transportation. 

Title: Hybrid Multi-camera Visual Servoing to Moving Target
Abstract:  Visual servoing is a well-known task in robotics. However, there are still challenges when multiple visual sources are combined to accurately guide the robot or occlusions appear. In this paper we present a novel visual servoing approach using hybrid multi-camera input data to lead a robot arm accurately to dynamically moving target points in the presence of partial occlusions. The approach uses four RGBD sensors as Eye-to-Hand (EtoH) visual input, and an arm-mounted stereo camera as Eye-in-Hand (EinH). A Master supervisor task selects between using the EtoH or the EinH, depending on the distance between the robot and target. The Master also selects the subset of EtoH cameras that best perceive the target. When the EinH sensor is used, if the target becomes occluded or goes out of the sensor's view-frustum, the Master switches back to the EtoH sensors to re-track the object. Using this adaptive visual input data, the robot is then controlled using an iterative planner that uses position, orientation and joint configuration to estimate the trajectory. Since the target is dynamic, this trajectory is updated every time-step. Experiments show good performance in four different situations: tracking a ball, targeting a bulls-eye, guiding a straw to a mouth and delivering an item to a moving hand. The experiments cover both simple situations such as a ball that is mostly visible from all cameras, and more complex situations such as the mouth which is partially occluded from some of the sensors. 

Title: A Quaternion-based Certifiably Optimal Solution to the Wahba Problem with Outliers
Abstract:  The Wahba problem, also known as rotation search, seeks to find the best rotation to align two sets of vector observations given putative correspondences, and is a fundamental routine in many computer vision and robotics applications. This work proposes the first polynomial-time certifiably optimal approach for solving the Wahba problem when a large number of vector observations are outliers. Our first contribution is to formulate the Wahba problem using a Truncated Least Squares (TLS) cost that is insensitive to a large fraction of spurious correspondences. The second contribution is to rewrite the problem using unit quaternions and show that the TLS cost can be framed as a Quadratically-Constrained Quadratic Program (QCQP). Since the resulting optimization is still highly non-convex and hard to solve globally, our third contribution is to develop a convex Semidefinite Programming (SDP) relaxation. We show that while a naive relaxation performs poorly in general, our relaxation is tight even in the presence of large noise and outliers. We validate the proposed algorithm, named QUASAR (QUAternion-based Semidefinite relAxation for Robust alignment), in both synthetic and real datasets showing that the algorithm outperforms RANSAC, robust local optimization techniques, global outlier-removal procedures, and Branch-and-Bound methods. QUASAR is able to compute certifiably optimal solutions (i.e. the relaxation is exact) even in the case when 95% of the correspondences are outliers. 

Title: Experience Reuse with Probabilistic Movement Primitives
Abstract:  Acquiring new robot motor skills is cumbersome, as learning a skill from scratch and without prior knowledge requires the exploration of a large space of motor configurations. Accordingly, for learning a new task, time could be saved by restricting the parameter search space by initializing it with the solution of a similar task. We present a framework which is able of such knowledge transfer from already learned movement skills to a new learning task. The framework combines probabilistic movement primitives with descriptions of their effects for skill representation. New skills are first initialized with parameters inferred from related movement primitives and thereafter adapted to the new task through relative entropy policy search. We compare two different transfer approaches to initialize the search space distribution with data of known skills with a similar effect. We show the different benefits of the two knowledge transfer approaches on an object pushing task for a simulated 3-DOF robot. We can show that the quality of the learned skills improves and the required iterations to learn a new task can be reduced by more than 60% when past experiences are utilized. 

Title: To Go or Not To Go? A Near Unsupervised Learning Approach For Robot Navigation
Abstract:  It is important for robots to be able to decide whether they can go through a space or not, as they navigate through a dynamic environment. This capability can help them avoid injury or serious damage, e.g., as a result of running into people and obstacles, getting stuck, or falling off an edge. To this end, we propose an unsupervised and a near-unsupervised method based on Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) to classify scenarios as traversable or not based on visual data. Our method is inspired by the recent success of data-driven approaches on computer vision problems and anomaly detection, and reduces the need for vast amounts of negative examples at training time. Collecting negative data indicating that a robot should not go through a space is typically hard and dangerous because of collisions, whereas collecting positive data can be automated and done safely based on the robot's own traveling experience. We verify the generality and effectiveness of the proposed approach on a test dataset collected in a previously unseen environment with a mobile robot. Furthermore, we show that our method can be used to build costmaps (we call as "GoNoGo" costmaps) for robot path planning using visual data only. 

Title: Motion Planning Networks: Bridging the Gap Between Learning-based and Classical Motion Planners
Abstract:  This paper describes Motion Planning Networks (MPNet), a computationally efficient, learning-based neural planner for solving motion planning problems. MPNet uses neural networks to learn general near-optimal heuristics for path planning in seen and unseen environments. It takes environment information such as raw point-cloud from depth sensors, as well as a robot's initial and desired goal configurations and recursively calls itself to bidirectionally generate connectable paths. In addition to finding directly connectable and near-optimal paths in a single pass, we show that worst-case theoretical guarantees can be proven if we merge this neural network strategy with classical sample-based planners in a hybrid approach while still retaining significant computational and optimality improvements. To train the MPNet models, we present an active continual learning approach that enables MPNet to learn from streaming data and actively ask for expert demonstrations when needed, drastically reducing data for training. We validate MPNet against gold-standard and state-of-the-art planning methods in a variety of problems from 2D to 7D robot configuration spaces in challenging and cluttered environments, with results showing significant and consistently stronger performance metrics, and motivating neural planning in general as a modern strategy for solving motion planning problems efficiently. 

Title: Learning to Navigate from Simulation via Spatial and Semantic Information Synthesis with Noise Model Embedding
Abstract:  While training an end-to-end navigation network in the real world is usually of high cost, simulation provides a safe and cheap environment in this training stage. However, training neural network models in simulation brings up the problem of how to effectively transfer the model from simulation to the real world (sim-to-real). In this work, we regard the environment representation as a crucial element in this transfer process and propose a visual information pyramid (VIP) model to systematically investigate a practical environment representation. A novel representation composed of spatial and semantic information synthesis is then established accordingly, where noise model embedding is particularly considered. To explore the effectiveness of this representation, we compared the performance with representations popularly used in the literature in both simulated and real-world scenarios. Results suggest that our environment representation stands out. Furthermore, an analysis on the feature map is implemented to investigate the effectiveness through inner reaction, which could be irradiative for future researches on end-to-end navigation. 

Title: Vision-Depth Landmarks and Inertial Fusion for Navigation in Degraded Visual Environments
Abstract:  This paper proposes a method for tight fusion of visual, depth and inertial data in order to extend robotic capabilities for navigation in GPS-denied, poorly illuminated, and texture-less environments. Visual and depth information are fused at the feature detection and descriptor extraction levels to augment one sensing modality with the other. These multimodal features are then further integrated with inertial sensor cues using an extended Kalman filter to estimate the robot pose, sensor bias terms, and landmark positions simultaneously as part of the filter state. As demonstrated through a set of hand-held and Micro Aerial Vehicle experiments, the proposed algorithm is shown to perform reliably in challenging visually-degraded environments using RGB-D information from a lightweight and low-cost sensor and data from an IMU. 

Title: Dynamic Reconstruction of Deformable Soft-tissue with Stereo Scope in Minimal Invasive Surgery
Abstract:  In minimal invasive surgery, it is important to rebuild and visualize the latest deformed shape of soft-tissue surfaces to mitigate tissue damages. This paper proposes an innovative Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) algorithm for deformable dense reconstruction of surfaces using a sequence of images from a stereoscope. We introduce a warping field based on the Embedded Deformation (ED) nodes with 3D shapes recovered from consecutive pairs of stereo images. The warping field is estimated by deforming the last updated model to the current live model. Our SLAM system can: (1) Incrementally build a live model by progressively fusing new observations with vivid accurate texture. (2) Estimate the deformed shape of unobserved region with the principle As-Rigid-As-Possible. (3) Show the consecutive shape of models. (4) Estimate the current relative pose between the soft-tissue and the scope. In-vivo experiments with publicly available datasets demonstrate that the 3D models can be incrementally built for different soft-tissues with different deformations from sequences of stereo images obtained by laparoscopes. Results show the potential clinical application of our SLAM system for providing surgeon useful shape and texture information in minimal invasive surgery. 

Title: Spatio-Semantic ConvNet-Based Visual Place Recognition
Abstract:  We present a Visual Place Recognition system that follows the two-stage format common to image retrieval pipelines. The system encodes images of places by employing the activations of different layers of a pre-trained, off-the-shelf, VGG16 Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture. In the first stage of our method and given a query image of a place, a number of top candidate images is retrieved from a previously stored database of places. In the second stage, we propose an exhaustive comparison of the query image against these candidates by encoding semantic and spatial information in the form of CNN features. Results from our approach outperform by a large margin state-of-the-art visual place recognition methods on five of the most commonly used benchmark datasets. The performance gain is especially remarkable on the most challenging datasets, with more than a twofold recognition improvement with respect to the latest published work. 

Title: Sparse-to-Dense: Depth Prediction from Sparse Depth Samples and a Single Image
Abstract:  We consider the problem of dense depth prediction from a sparse set of depth measurements and a single RGB image. Since depth estimation from monocular images alone is inherently ambiguous and unreliable, to attain a higher level of robustness and accuracy, we introduce additional sparse depth samples, which are either acquired with a low-resolution depth sensor or computed via visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) algorithms. We propose the use of a single deep regression network to learn directly from the RGB-D raw data, and explore the impact of number of depth samples on prediction accuracy. Our experiments show that, compared to using only RGB images, the addition of 100 spatially random depth samples reduces the prediction root-mean-square error by 50% on the NYU-Depth-v2 indoor dataset. It also boosts the percentage of reliable prediction from 59% to 92% on the KITTI dataset. We demonstrate two applications of the proposed algorithm: a plug-in module in SLAM to convert sparse maps to dense maps, and super-resolution for LiDARs. Software and video demonstration are publicly available. 

Title: Estimating Pedestrian Moving State Based on Single 2D Body Pose
Abstract:  The Crossing or Not-Crossing (C/NC) problem is important to autonomous vehicles (AVs) for safe vehicle/pedestrian interactions. However, this problem setup often ignores pedestrians walking along the direction of the vehicles' movement (LONG). To enhance the AVs' awareness of pedestrians behavior, we make the first step towards extending the C/NC to the C/NC/LONG problem and recognize them based on single body pose. In contrast, previous C/NC state classifiers depend on multiple poses or contextual information. Our proposed shallow neural network classifier aims to recognize these three states swiftly. We tested it on the JAAD dataset and reported an average 81.23% accuracy. Furthermore, this model can be integrated with different sensors and algorithms that provide 2D pedestrian body pose so that it is able to function across multiple light and weather conditions. 

Title: Part Segmentation for Highly Accurate Deformable Tracking in Occlusions via Fully Convolutional Neural Networks
Abstract:  Successfully tracking the human body is an important perceptual challenge for robots that must work around people. Existing methods fall into two broad categories: geometric tracking and direct pose estimation using machine learning. While recent work has shown direct estimation techniques can be quite powerful, geometric tracking methods using point clouds can provide a very high level of 3D accuracy which is necessary for many robotic applications. However these approaches can have difficulty in clutter when large portions of the subject are occluded. To overcome this limitation, we propose a solution based on fully convolutional neural networks (FCN). We develop an optimized Fast-FCN network architecture for our application which allows us to filter observed point clouds and improve tracking accuracy while maintaining interactive frame rates. We also show that this model can be trained with a limited number of examples and almost no manual labelling by using an existing geometric tracker and data augmentation to automatically generate segmentation maps. We demonstrate the accuracy of our full system by comparing it against an existing geometric tracker, and show significant improvement in these challenging scenarios. 

Title: Deep Multimodal Embedding: Manipulating Novel Objects with Point-clouds, Language and Trajectories
Abstract:  A robot operating in a real-world environment needs to perform reasoning over a variety of sensor modalities such as vision, language and motion trajectories. However, it is extremely challenging to manually design features relating such disparate modalities. In this work, we introduce an algorithm that learns to embed point-cloud, natural language, and manipulation trajectory data into a shared embedding space with a deep neural network. To learn semantically meaningful spaces throughout our network, we use a loss-based margin to bring embeddings of relevant pairs closer together while driving less-relevant cases from different modalities further apart. We use this both to pre-train its lower layers and fine-tune our final embedding space, leading to a more robust representation. We test our algorithm on the task of manipulating novel objects and appliances based on prior experience with other objects. On a large dataset, we achieve significant improvements in both accuracy and inference time over the previous state of the art. We also perform end-to-end experiments on a PR2 robot utilizing our learned embedding space. 

Title: Smoothness-based Edge Detection using Low-SNR Camera for Robot Navigation
Abstract:  In the emerging advancement in the branch of autonomous robotics, the ability of a robot to efficiently localize and construct maps of its surrounding is crucial. This paper deals with utilizing thermal-infrared cameras, as opposed to conventional cameras as the primary sensor to capture images of the robot's surroundings. For localization, the images need to be further processed before feeding them to a navigational system. The main motivation of this paper was to develop an edge detection methodology capable of utilizing the low-SNR poor output from such a thermal camera and effectively detect smooth edges of the surrounding environment. The enhanced edge detector proposed in this paper takes the raw image from the thermal sensor, denoises the images, applies Canny edge detection followed by CSS method. The edges are ranked to remove any noise and only edges of the highest rank are kept. Then, the broken edges are linked by computing edge metrics and a smooth edge of the surrounding is displayed in a binary image. Several comparisons are also made in the paper between the proposed technique and the existing techniques. 

Title: Gaussian Processes for Data-Efficient Learning in Robotics and Control
Abstract:  Autonomous learning has been a promising direction in control and robotics for more than a decade since data-driven learning allows to reduce the amount of engineering knowledge, which is otherwise required. However, autonomous reinforcement learning (RL) approaches typically require many interactions with the system to learn controllers, which is a practical limitation in real systems, such as robots, where many interactions can be impractical and time consuming. To address this problem, current learning approaches typically require task-specific knowledge in form of expert demonstrations, realistic simulators, pre-shaped policies, or specific knowledge about the underlying dynamics. In this article, we follow a different approach and speed up learning by extracting more information from data. In particular, we learn a probabilistic, non-parametric Gaussian process transition model of the system. By explicitly incorporating model uncertainty into long-term planning and controller learning our approach reduces the effects of model errors, a key problem in model-based learning. Compared to state-of-the art RL our model-based policy search method achieves an unprecedented speed of learning. We demonstrate its applicability to autonomous learning in real robot and control tasks. 

Title: Visual Tracking Using Sparse Coding and Earth Mover's Distance
Abstract:  An efficient iterative Earth Mover's Distance (iEMD) algorithm for visual tracking is proposed in this paper. The Earth Mover's Distance (EMD) is used as the similarity measure to search for the optimal template candidates in feature-spatial space in a video sequence. The computation of the EMD is formulated as the transportation problem from linear programming. The efficiency of the EMD optimization problem limits its use for visual tracking. To alleviate this problem, a transportation-simplex method is used for EMD optimization and a monotonically convergent iterative optimization algorithm is developed. The local sparse representation is used as the appearance models for the iEMD tracker. The maximum-alignment-pooling method is used for constructing a sparse coding histogram which reduces the computational complexity of the EMD optimization. The template update algorithm based on the EMD is also presented. The iEMD tracking algorithm assumes small inter-frame movement in order to guarantee convergence. When the camera is mounted on a moving robot, e.g., a flying quadcopter, the camera could experience a sudden and rapid motion leading to large inter-frame movements. To ensure that the tracking algorithm converges, a gyro-aided extension of the iEMD tracker is presented, where synchronized gyroscope information is utilized to compensate for the rotation of the camera. The iEMD algorithm's performance is evaluated using eight publicly available datasets. The performance of the iEMD algorithm is compared with seven state-of-the-art tracking algorithms based on relative percentage overlap. The robustness of this algorithm for large inter-frame displacements is also illustrated. 

Title: Cooperation without Coordination: Hierarchical Predictive Planning for Decentralized Multiagent Navigation
Abstract:  Decentralized multiagent planning raises many challenges, such as adaption to changing environments inexplicable by the agent's own behavior, coordination from noisy sensor inputs like lidar, cooperation without knowing other agents' intents. To address these challenges, we present hierarchical predictive planning (HPP) for decentralized multiagent navigation tasks. HPP learns prediction models for itself and other teammates, and uses the prediction models to propose and evaluate navigation goals that complete the cooperative task without explicit coordination. To learn the prediction models, HPP observes other agents' behavior and learns to maps own sensors to predicted locations of other agents. HPP then uses the cross-entropy method to iteratively propose, evaluate, and improve navigation goals, under assumption that all agents in the team share a common objective. HPP removes the need for a centralized operator (i.e. robots determine their own actions without coordinating their beliefs or plans) and can be trained and easily transferred to real world environments. The results show that HPP generalizes to new environments including real-world robot team. It is also 33x more sample efficient and performs better in complex environments compared to a baseline. The video and website for this paper can be found at https://youtu.be/-LqgfksqNH8 and https://sites.google.com/view/multiagent-hpp. 

Title: BARNet: Bilinear Attention Network with Adaptive Receptive Fields for Surgical Instrument Segmentation
Abstract:  Surgical instrument segmentation is extremely important for computer-assisted surgery. Different from common object segmentation, it is more challenging due to the large illumination and scale variation caused by the special surgical scenes. In this paper, we propose a novel bilinear attention network with adaptive receptive field to solve these two challenges. For the illumination variation, the bilinear attention module can capture second-order statistics to encode global contexts and semantic dependencies between local pixels. With them, semantic features in challenging areas can be inferred from their neighbors and the distinction of various semantics can be boosted. For the scale variation, our adaptive receptive field module aggregates multi-scale features and automatically fuses them with different weights. Specifically, it encodes the semantic relationship between channels to emphasize feature maps with appropriate scales, changing the receptive field of subsequent convolutions. The proposed network achieves the best performance 97.47% mean IOU on Cata7 and comes first place on EndoVis 2017 by 10.10% IOU overtaking second-ranking method. 

Title: Deceiving Image-to-Image Translation Networks for Autonomous Driving with Adversarial Perturbations
Abstract:  Deep neural networks (DNNs) have achieved impressive performance on handling computer vision problems, however, it has been found that DNNs are vulnerable to adversarial examples. For such reason, adversarial perturbations have been recently studied in several respects. However, most previous works have focused on image classification tasks, and it has never been studied regarding adversarial perturbations on Image-to-image (Im2Im) translation tasks, showing great success in handling paired and/or unpaired mapping problems in the field of autonomous driving and robotics. This paper examines different types of adversarial perturbations that can fool Im2Im frameworks for autonomous driving purpose. We propose both quasi-physical and digital adversarial perturbations that can make Im2Im models yield unexpected results. We then empirically analyze these perturbations and show that they generalize well under both paired for image synthesis and unpaired settings for style transfer. We also validate that there exist some perturbation thresholds over which the Im2Im mapping is disrupted or impossible. The existence of these perturbations reveals that there exist crucial weaknesses in Im2Im models. Lastly, we show that our methods illustrate how perturbations affect the quality of outputs, pioneering the improvement of the robustness of current SOTA networks for autonomous driving. 

Title: Deep Keypoint-Based Camera Pose Estimation with Geometric Constraints
Abstract:  Estimating relative camera poses from consecutive frames is a fundamental problem in visual odometry (VO) and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), where classic methods consisting of hand-crafted features and sampling-based outlier rejection have been a dominant choice for over a decade. Although multiple works propose to replace these modules with learning-based counterparts, most have not yet been as accurate, robust and generalizable as conventional methods. In this paper, we design an end-to-end trainable framework consisting of learnable modules for detection, feature extraction, matching and outlier rejection, while directly optimizing for the geometric pose objective. We show both quantitatively and qualitatively that pose estimation performance may be achieved on par with the classic pipeline. Moreover, we are able to show by end-to-end training, the key components of the pipeline could be significantly improved, which leads to better generalizability to unseen datasets compared to existing learning-based methods. 

Title: Addressing the Sim2Real Gap in Robotic 3D Object Classification
Abstract:  Object classification with 3D data is an essential component of any scene understanding method. It has gained significant interest in a variety of communities, most notably in robotics and computer graphics. While the advent of deep learning has progressed the field of 3D object classification, most work using this data type are solely evaluated on CAD model datasets. Consequently, current work does not address the discrepancies existing between real and artificial data. In this work, we examine this gap in a robotic context by specifically addressing the problem of classification when transferring from artificial CAD models to real reconstructed objects. This is performed by training on ModelNet (CAD models) and evaluating on ScanNet (reconstructed objects). We show that standard methods do not perform well in this task. We thus introduce a method that carefully samples object parts that are reproducible under various transformations and hence robust. Using graph convolution to classify the composed graph of parts, our method significantly improves upon the baseline. 

Title: Learning Symmetric and Low-energy Locomotion
Abstract:  Learning locomotion skills is a challenging problem. To generate realistic and smooth locomotion, existing methods use motion capture, finite state machines or morphology-specific knowledge to guide the motion generation algorithms. Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) is a promising approach for the automatic creation of locomotion control. Indeed, a standard benchmark for DRL is to automatically create a running controller for a biped character from a simple reward function. Although several different DRL algorithms can successfully create a running controller, the resulting motions usually look nothing like a real runner. This paper takes a minimalist learning approach to the locomotion problem, without the use of motion examples, finite state machines, or morphology-specific knowledge. We introduce two modifications to the DRL approach that, when used together, produce locomotion behaviors that are symmetric, low-energy, and much closer to that of a real person. First, we introduce a new term to the loss function (not the reward function) that encourages symmetric actions. Second, we introduce a new curriculum learning method that provides modulated physical assistance to help the character with left/right balance and forward movement. The algorithm automatically computes appropriate assistance to the character and gradually relaxes this assistance, so that eventually the character learns to move entirely without help. Because our method does not make use of motion capture data, it can be applied to a variety of character morphologies. We demonstrate locomotion controllers for the lower half of a biped, a full humanoid, a quadruped, and a hexapod. Our results show that learned policies are able to produce symmetric, low-energy gaits. In addition, speed-appropriate gait patterns emerge without any guidance from motion examples or contact planning. 

Title: Segmental Spatiotemporal CNNs for Fine-grained Action Segmentation
Abstract:  Joint segmentation and classification of fine-grained actions is important for applications of human-robot interaction, video surveillance, and human skill evaluation. However, despite substantial recent progress in large-scale action classification, the performance of state-of-the-art fine-grained action recognition approaches remains low. We propose a model for action segmentation which combines low-level spatiotemporal features with a high-level segmental classifier. Our spatiotemporal CNN is comprised of a spatial component that uses convolutional filters to capture information about objects and their relationships, and a temporal component that uses large 1D convolutional filters to capture information about how object relationships change across time. These features are used in tandem with a semi-Markov model that models transitions from one action to another. We introduce an efficient constrained segmental inference algorithm for this model that is orders of magnitude faster than the current approach. We highlight the effectiveness of our Segmental Spatiotemporal CNN on cooking and surgical action datasets for which we observe substantially improved performance relative to recent baseline methods. 

Title: A Separation-Based Design to Data-Driven Control for Large-Scale Partially Observed Systems
Abstract:  This paper studies the partially observed stochastic optimal control problem for systems with state dynamics governed by Partial Differential Equations (PDEs) that leads to an extremely large problem. First, an open-loop deterministic trajectory optimization problem is solved using a black box simulation model of the dynamical system. Next, a Linear Quadratic Gaussian (LQG) controller is designed for the nominal trajectory-dependent linearized system, which is identified using input-output experimental data consisting of the impulse responses of the optimized nominal system. A computational nonlinear heat example is used to illustrate the performance of the approach. 

Title: Investigating Enactive Learning for Autonomous Intelligent Agents
Abstract:  The enactive approach to cognition is typically proposed as a viable alternative to traditional cognitive science. Enactive cognition displaces the explanatory focus from the internal representations of the agent to the direct sensorimotor interaction with its environment. In this paper, we investigate enactive learning through means of artificial agent simulations. We compare the performances of the enactive agent to an agent operating on classical reinforcement learning in foraging tasks within maze environments. The characteristics of the agents are analysed in terms of the accessibility of the environmental states, goals, and exploration/exploitation tradeoffs. We confirm that the enactive agent can successfully interact with its environment and learn to avoid unfavourable interactions using intrinsically defined goals. The performance of the enactive agent is shown to be limited by the number of affordable actions. 

Title: A novel residual whitening based training to avoid overfitting
Abstract:  In this paper we demonstrate that training models to minimize the autocorrelation of the residuals as an additional penalty prevents overfitting of the machine learning models. We use different problem extrapolative testing sets, and invoking decorrelation objective functions, we create models that can predict more complex systems. The models are interpretable, extrapolative, data-efficient, and capture predictable but complex non-stochastic behavior such as unmodeled degrees of freedom and systemic measurement noise. We apply this improved modeling paradigm to several simulated systems and an actual physical system in the context of system identification. Several ways of composing domain models with neural models are examined for time series, boosting, bagging, and auto-encoding on various systems of varying complexity and non-linearity. Although this work is preliminary, we show that the ability to combine models is a very promising direction for neural modeling. 

Title: Comparing Human-Centric and Robot-Centric Sampling for Robot Deep Learning from Demonstrations
Abstract:  Motivated by recent advances in Deep Learning for robot control, this paper considers two learning algorithms in terms of how they acquire demonstrations. "Human-Centric" (HC) sampling is the standard supervised learning algorithm, where a human supervisor demonstrates the task by teleoperating the robot to provide trajectories consisting of state-control pairs. "Robot-Centric" (RC) sampling is an increasingly popular alternative used in algorithms such as DAgger, where a human supervisor observes the robot executing a learned policy and provides corrective control labels for each state visited. RC sampling can be challenging for human supervisors and prone to mislabeling. RC sampling can also induce error in policy performance because it repeatedly visits areas of the state space that are harder to learn. Although policies learned with RC sampling can be superior to HC sampling for standard learning models such as linear SVMs, policies learned with HC sampling may be comparable with highly-expressive learning models such as deep learning and hyper-parametric decision trees, which have little model error. We compare HC and RC using a grid world and a physical robot singulation task, where in the latter the input is a binary image of a connected set of objects on a planar worksurface and the policy generates a motion of the gripper to separate one object from the rest. We observe in simulation that for linear SVMs, policies learned with RC outperformed those learned with HC but that with deep models this advantage disappears. We also find that with RC, the corrective control labels provided by humans can be highly inconsistent. We prove there exists a class of examples where in the limit, HC is guaranteed to converge to an optimal policy while RC may fail to converge. 

Title: Federated Imitation Learning: A Novel Framework for Cloud Robotic Systems with Heterogeneous Sensor Data
Abstract:  Humans are capable of learning a new behavior by observing others to perform the skill. Similarly, robots can also implement this by imitation learning. Furthermore, if with external guidance, humans can master the new behavior more efficiently. So, how can robots achieve this? To address the issue, we present a novel framework named FIL. It provides a heterogeneous knowledge fusion mechanism for cloud robotic systems. Then, a knowledge fusion algorithm in FIL is proposed. It enables the cloud to fuse heterogeneous knowledge from local robots and generate guide models for robots with service requests. After that, we introduce a knowledge transfer scheme to facilitate local robots acquiring knowledge from the cloud. With FIL, a robot is capable of utilizing knowledge from other robots to increase its imitation learning in accuracy and efficiency. Compared with transfer learning and meta-learning, FIL is more suitable to be deployed in cloud robotic systems. Finally, we conduct experiments of a self-driving task for robots (cars). The experimental results demonstrate that the shared model generated by FIL increases imitation learning efficiency of local robots in cloud robotic systems. 

Title: DeepIM: Deep Iterative Matching for 6D Pose Estimation
Abstract:  Estimating the 6D pose of objects from images is an important problem in various applications such as robot manipulation and virtual reality. While direct regression of images to object poses has limited accuracy, matching rendered images of an object against the observed image can produce accurate results. In this work, we propose a novel deep neural network for 6D pose matching named DeepIM. Given an initial pose estimation, our network is able to iteratively refine the pose by matching the rendered image against the observed image. The network is trained to predict a relative pose transformation using an untangled representation of 3D location and 3D orientation and an iterative training process. Experiments on two commonly used benchmarks for 6D pose estimation demonstrate that DeepIM achieves large improvements over state-of-the-art methods. We furthermore show that DeepIM is able to match previously unseen objects. 

Title: HOG based Fast Human Detection
Abstract:  Objects recognition in image is one of the most difficult problems in computer vision. It is also an important step for the implementation of several existing applications that require high-level image interpretation. Therefore, there is a growing interest in this research area during the last years. In this paper, we present an algorithm for human detection and recognition in real-time, from images taken by a CCD camera mounted on a car-like mobile robot. The proposed technique is based on Histograms of Oriented Gradient (HOG) and SVM classifier. The implementation of our detector has provided good results, and can be used in robotics tasks. 

Title: Lunar Terrain Relative Navigation Using a Convolutional Neural Network for Visual Crater Detection
Abstract:  Terrain relative navigation can improve the precision of a spacecraft's position estimate by detecting global features that act as supplementary measurements to correct for drift in the inertial navigation system. This paper presents a system that uses a convolutional neural network (CNN) and image processing methods to track the location of a simulated spacecraft with an extended Kalman filter (EKF). The CNN, called LunaNet, visually detects craters in the simulated camera frame and those detections are matched to known lunar craters in the region of the current estimated spacecraft position. These matched craters are treated as features that are tracked using the EKF. LunaNet enables more reliable position tracking over a simulated trajectory due to its greater robustness to changes in image brightness and more repeatable crater detections from frame to frame throughout a trajectory. LunaNet combined with an EKF produces a decrease of 60% in the average final position estimation error and a decrease of 25% in average final velocity estimation error compared to an EKF using an image processing-based crater detection method when tested on trajectories using images of standard brightness. 

Title: Human Action Recognition in Drone Videos using a Few Aerial Training Examples
Abstract:  Drones are enabling new forms of human action surveil-lance due to their low cost and fast mobility. However, using deep neural networks for automatic aerial action recognition is difficult due to the need for the humongous number of aerial human action videos needed for training. Collecting a large collection of human action aerial videos costly, time-consuming and difficult. In this paper, we explore two alternative data sources to improve aerial action classification when only a few training aerial examples are available. As a first data source, we resort to video games. We introduce the first of its kind game action dataset. The dataset contains plenty of ground and aerial video pairs of human actions from video games. For the second data source, employing ground videos we generate discriminative fake aerial examples using conditionalWasserstein Generative Adversarial Networks. We do not assume game and real action dataset of having the same action classes. Due to the heterogeneous nature of the data (game and real action dataset actions are not necessarily the same), we feed the network with real and game(or fake) data in an alternating fashion in a disjoint multitask learning framework to obtain a robust action classifier. We validate the proposed approach on several aerial action datasets and demonstrate that aerial games and generated fake aerial examples can be extremely useful for improved action recognition in real aerial videos when only a few aerial training examples are available. The code, aerial-ground game action dataset, and a real aerial action will be made publicly available. 

Title: Visual Navigation Among Humans with Optimal Control as a Supervisor
Abstract:  Real world navigation requires robots to operate in unfamiliar, dynamic environments, sharing spaces with humans. Navigating around humans is especially difficult because it requires predicting their future motion, which can be quite challenging. We propose a novel framework for navigation around humans which combines learning-based perception with model-based optimal control. Specifically, we train a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)-based perception module which maps the robot's visual inputs to a waypoint, or next desired state. This waypoint is then input into planning and control modules which convey the robot safely and efficiently to the goal. To train the CNN we contribute a photo-realistic bench-marking dataset for autonomous robot navigation in the presence of humans. The CNN is trained using supervised learning on images rendered from our photo-realistic dataset. The proposed framework learns to anticipate and react to peoples' motion based only on a monocular RGB image, without explicitly predicting future human motion. Our method generalizes well to unseen buildings and humans in both simulation and real world environments. Furthermore, our experiments demonstrate that combining model-based control and learning leads to better and more data-efficient navigational behaviors as compared to a purely learning based approach. Videos describing our approach and experiments are available on the project website. 

Title: Marker based Thermal-Inertial Localization for Aerial Robots in Obscurant Filled Environments
Abstract:  For robotic inspection tasks in known environments fiducial markers provide a reliable and low-cost solution for robot localization. However, detection of such markers relies on the quality of RGB camera data, which degrades significantly in the presence of visual obscurants such as fog and smoke. The ability to navigate known environments in the presence of obscurants can be critical for inspection tasks especially, in the aftermath of a disaster. Addressing such a scenario, this work proposes a method for the design of fiducial markers to be used with thermal cameras for the pose estimation of aerial robots. Our low cost markers are designed to work in the long wave infrared spectrum, which is not affected by the presence of obscurants, and can be affixed to any object that has measurable temperature difference with respect to its surroundings. Furthermore, the estimated pose from the fiducial markers is fused with inertial measurements in an extended Kalman filter to remove high frequency noise and error present in the fiducial pose estimates. The proposed markers and the pose estimation method are experimentally evaluated in an obscurant filled environment using an aerial robot carrying a thermal camera. 

Title: Noticing Motion Patterns: Temporal CNN with a Novel Convolution Operator for Human Trajectory Prediction
Abstract:  We propose a novel way to learn, detect and extract patterns in sequential data, and successfully applied it to the problem of human trajectory prediction. Our model, Social Pattern Extraction Convolution (Social-PEC), when compared to existing methods, achieves the best performance in terms of Average/Final Displacement Error. In addition, the proposed approach avoids the obscurity in the previous use of pooling layer, presenting intuitive and explainable decision making processes. 

Title: The RGB-D Triathlon: Towards Agile Visual Toolboxes for Robots
Abstract:  Deep networks have brought significant advances in robot perception, enabling to improve the capabilities of robots in several visual tasks, ranging from object detection and recognition to pose estimation, semantic scene segmentation and many others. Still, most approaches typically address visual tasks in isolation, resulting in overspecialized models which achieve strong performances in specific applications but work poorly in other (often related) tasks. This is clearly sub-optimal for a robot which is often required to perform simultaneously multiple visual recognition tasks in order to properly act and interact with the environment. This problem is exacerbated by the limited computational and memory resources typically available onboard to a robotic platform. The problem of learning flexible models which can handle multiple tasks in a lightweight manner has recently gained attention in the computer vision community and benchmarks supporting this research have been proposed. In this work we study this problem in the robot vision context, proposing a new benchmark, the RGB-D Triathlon, and evaluating state of the art algorithms in this novel challenging scenario. We also define a new evaluation protocol, better suited to the robot vision setting. Results shed light on the strengths and weaknesses of existing approaches and on open issues, suggesting directions for future research. 

Title: Using Learned Predictions as Feedback to Improve Control and Communication with an Artificial Limb: Preliminary Findings
Abstract:  Many people suffer from the loss of a limb. Learning to get by without an arm or hand can be very challenging, and existing prostheses do not yet fulfil the needs of individuals with amputations. One promising solution is to provide greater communication between a prosthesis and its user. Towards this end, we present a simple machine learning interface to supplement the control of a robotic limb with feedback to the user about what the limb will be experiencing in the near future. A real-time prediction learner was implemented to predict impact-related electrical load experienced by a robot limb; the learning system's predictions were then communicated to the device's user to aid in their interactions with a workspace. We tested this system with five able-bodied subjects. Each subject manipulated the robot arm while receiving different forms of vibrotactile feedback regarding the arm's contact with its workspace. Our trials showed that communicable predictions could be learned quickly during human control of the robot arm. Using these predictions as a basis for feedback led to a statistically significant improvement in task performance when compared to purely reactive feedback from the device. Our study therefore contributes initial evidence that prediction learning and machine intelligence can benefit not just control, but also feedback from an artificial limb. We expect that a greater level of acceptance and ownership can be achieved if the prosthesis itself takes an active role in transmitting learned knowledge about its state and its situation of use. 

Title: From Multiview Image Curves to 3D Drawings
Abstract:  Reconstructing 3D scenes from multiple views has made impressive strides in recent years, chiefly by correlating isolated feature points, intensity patterns, or curvilinear structures. In the general setting - without controlled acquisition, abundant texture, curves and surfaces following specific models or limiting scene complexity - most methods produce unorganized point clouds, meshes, or voxel representations, with some exceptions producing unorganized clouds of 3D curve fragments. Ideally, many applications require structured representations of curves, surfaces and their spatial relationships. This paper presents a step in this direction by formulating an approach that combines 2D image curves into a collection of 3D curves, with topological connectivity between them represented as a 3D graph. This results in a 3D drawing, which is complementary to surface representations in the same sense as a 3D scaffold complements a tent taut over it. We evaluate our results against truth on synthetic and real datasets. 

Title: Nonverbal Robot Feedback for Human Teachers
Abstract:  Robots can learn preferences from human demonstrations, but their success depends on how informative these demonstrations are. Being informative is unfortunately very challenging, because during teaching, people typically get no transparency into what the robot already knows or has learned so far. In contrast, human students naturally provide a wealth of nonverbal feedback that reveals their level of understanding and engagement. In this work, we study how a robot can similarly provide feedback that is minimally disruptive, yet gives human teachers a better mental model of the robot learner, and thus enables them to teach more effectively. Our idea is that at any point, the robot can indicate what it thinks the correct next action is, shedding light on its current estimate of the human's preferences. We analyze how useful this feedback is, both in theory and with two user studies---one with a virtual character that tests the feedback itself, and one with a PR2 robot that uses gaze as the feedback mechanism. We find that feedback can be useful for improving both the quality of teaching and teachers' understanding of the robot's capability. 

Title: Fast Risk Assessment for Autonomous Vehicles Using Learned Models of Agent Futures
Abstract:  This paper presents fast non-sampling based methods to assess the risk of trajectories for autonomous vehicles when probabilistic predictions of other agents' futures are generated by deep neural networks (DNNs). The presented methods address a wide range of representations for uncertain predictions including both Gaussian and non-Gaussian mixture models for predictions of both agent positions and controls. We show that the problem of risk assessment when Gaussian mixture models (GMMs) of agent positions are learned can be solved rapidly to arbitrary levels of accuracy with existing numerical methods. To address the problem of risk assessment for non-Gaussian mixture models of agent position, we propose finding upper bounds on risk using Chebyshev's Inequality and sums-of-squares (SOS) programming; they are both of interest as the former is much faster while the latter can be arbitrarily tight. These approaches only require statistical moments of agent positions to determine upper bounds on risk. To perform risk assessment when models are learned for agent controls as opposed to positions, we develop TreeRing, an algorithm analogous to tree search over the ring of polynomials that can be used to exactly propagate moments of control distributions into position distributions through nonlinear dynamics. The presented methods are demonstrated on realistic predictions from DNNs trained on the Argoverse and CARLA datasets and are shown to be effective for rapidly assessing the probability of low probability events. 

Title: Learning Predictive Representations for Deformable Objects Using Contrastive Estimation
Abstract:  Using visual model-based learning for deformable object manipulation is challenging due to difficulties in learning plannable visual representations along with complex dynamic models. In this work, we propose a new learning framework that jointly optimizes both the visual representation model and the dynamics model using contrastive estimation. Using simulation data collected by randomly perturbing deformable objects on a table, we learn latent dynamics models for these objects in an offline fashion. Then, using the learned models, we use simple model-based planning to solve challenging deformable object manipulation tasks such as spreading ropes and cloths. Experimentally, we show substantial improvements in performance over standard model-based learning techniques across our rope and cloth manipulation suite. Finally, we transfer our visual manipulation policies trained on data purely collected in simulation to a real PR2 robot through domain randomization. 

Title: Learning One-Shot Imitation from Humans without Humans
Abstract:  Humans can naturally learn to execute a new task by seeing it performed by other individuals once, and then reproduce it in a variety of configurations. Endowing robots with this ability of imitating humans from third person is a very immediate and natural way of teaching new tasks. Only recently, through meta-learning, there have been successful attempts to one-shot imitation learning from humans; however, these approaches require a lot of human resources to collect the data in the real world to train the robot. But is there a way to remove the need for real world human demonstrations during training? We show that with Task-Embedded Control Networks, we can infer control polices by embedding human demonstrations that can condition a control policy and achieve one-shot imitation learning. Importantly, we do not use a real human arm to supply demonstrations during training, but instead leverage domain randomisation in an application that has not been seen before: sim-to-real transfer on humans. Upon evaluating our approach on pushing and placing tasks in both simulation and in the real world, we show that in comparison to a system that was trained on real-world data we are able to achieve similar results by utilising only simulation data. 

Title: Parts-Based Articulated Object Localization in Clutter Using Belief Propagation
Abstract:  Robots working in human environments must be able to perceive and act on challenging objects with articulations, such as a pile of tools. Articulated objects increase the dimensionality of the pose estimation problem, and partial observations under clutter create additional challenges. To address this problem, we present a generative-discriminative parts-based recognition and localization method for articulated objects in clutter. We formulate the problem of articulated object pose estimation as a Markov Random Field (MRF). Hidden nodes in this MRF express the pose of the object parts, and edges express the articulation constraints between parts. Localization is performed within the MRF using an efficient belief propagation method. The method is informed by both part segmentation heatmaps over the observation, generated by a neural network, and the articulation constraints between object parts. Our generative-discriminative approach allows the proposed method to function in cluttered environments by inferring the pose of occluded parts using hypotheses from the visible parts. We demonstrate the efficacy of our methods in a tabletop environment for recognizing and localizing hand tools in uncluttered and cluttered configurations. 

Title: Virtual Testbed for Monocular Visual Navigation of Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems
Abstract:  Monocular visual navigation methods have seen significant advances in the last decade, recently producing several real-time solutions for autonomously navigating small unmanned aircraft systems without relying on GPS. This is critical for military operations which may involve environments where GPS signals are degraded or denied. However, testing and comparing visual navigation algorithms remains a challenge since visual data is expensive to gather. Conducting flight tests in a virtual environment is an attractive solution prior to committing to outdoor testing. This work presents a virtual testbed for conducting simulated flight tests over real-world terrain and analyzing the real-time performance of visual navigation algorithms at 31 Hz. This tool was created to ultimately find a visual odometry algorithm appropriate for further GPS-denied navigation research on fixed-wing aircraft, even though all of the algorithms were designed for other modalities. This testbed was used to evaluate three current state-of-the-art, open-source monocular visual odometry algorithms on a fixed-wing platform: Direct Sparse Odometry, Semi-Direct Visual Odometry, and ORB-SLAM2 (with loop closures disabled). 

Title: Learning Topometric Semantic Maps from Occupancy Grids
Abstract:  Today's mobile robots are expected to operate in complex environments they share with humans. To allow intuitive human-robot collaboration, robots require a human-like understanding of their surroundings in terms of semantically classified instances. In this paper, we propose a new approach for deriving such instance-based semantic maps purely from occupancy grids. We employ a combination of deep learning techniques to detect, segment and extract door hypotheses from a random-sized map. The extraction is followed by a post-processing chain to further increase the accuracy of our approach, as well as place categorization for the three classes room, door and corridor. All detected and classified entities are described as instances specified in a common coordinate system, while a topological map is derived to capture their spatial links. To train our two neural networks used for detection and map segmentation, we contribute a simulator that automatically creates and annotates the required training data. We further provide insight into which features are learned to detect doorways, and how the simulated training data can be augmented to train networks for the direct application on real-world grid maps. We evaluate our approach on several publicly available real-world data sets. Even though the used networks are solely trained on simulated data, our approach demonstrates high robustness and effectiveness in various real-world indoor environments. 

Title: Multimodal Attention Branch Network for Perspective-Free Sentence Generation
Abstract:  In this paper, we address the automatic sentence generation of fetching instructions for domestic service robots. Typical fetching commands such as "bring me the yellow toy from the upper part of the white shelf" includes referring expressions, i.e., "from the white upper part of the white shelf". To solve this task, we propose a multimodal attention branch network (Multi-ABN) which generates natural sentences in an end-to-end manner. Multi-ABN uses multiple images of the same fixed scene to generate sentences that are not tied to a particular viewpoint. This approach combines a linguistic attention branch mechanism with several attention branch mechanisms. We evaluated our approach, which outperforms the state-of-the-art method on a standard metrics. Our method also allows us to visualize the alignment between the linguistic input and the visual features. 

Title: Online Trajectory Planning Through Combined Trajectory Optimization and Function Approximation: Application to the Exoskeleton Atalante
Abstract:  Autonomous robots require online trajectory planning capability to operate in the real world. Efficient offline trajectory planning methods already exist, but are computationally demanding, preventing their use online. In this paper, we present a novel algorithm called Guided Trajectory Learning that learns a function approximation of solutions computed through trajectory optimization while ensuring accurate and reliable predictions. This function approximation is then used online to generate trajectories. This algorithm is designed to be easy to implement, and practical since it does not require massive computing power. It is readily applicable to any robotics systems and effortless to set up on real hardware since robust control strategies are usually already available. We demonstrate the computational performance of our algorithm on flat-foot walking with the self-balanced exoskeleton Atalante. 

Title: Deep Unsupervised Common Representation Learning for LiDAR and Camera Data using Double Siamese Networks
Abstract:  Domain gaps of sensor modalities pose a challenge for the design of autonomous robots. Taking a step towards closing this gap, we propose two unsupervised training frameworks for finding a common representation of LiDAR and camera data. The first method utilizes a double Siamese training structure to ensure consistency in the results. The second method uses a Canny edge image guiding the networks towards a desired representation. All networks are trained in an unsupervised manner, leaving room for scalability. The results are evaluated using common computer vision applications, and the limitations of the proposed approaches are outlined. 

Title: Triple-GAIL: A Multi-Modal Imitation Learning Framework with Generative Adversarial Nets
Abstract:  Generative adversarial imitation learning (GAIL) has shown promising results by taking advantage of generative adversarial nets, especially in the field of robot learning. However, the requirement of isolated single modal demonstrations limits the scalability of the approach to real world scenarios such as autonomous vehicles' demand for a proper understanding of human drivers' behavior. In this paper, we propose a novel multi-modal GAIL framework, named Triple-GAIL, that is able to learn skill selection and imitation jointly from both expert demonstrations and continuously generated experiences with data augmentation purpose by introducing an auxiliary skill selector. We provide theoretical guarantees on the convergence to optima for both of the generator and the selector respectively. Experiments on real driver trajectories and real-time strategy game datasets demonstrate that Triple-GAIL can better fit multi-modal behaviors close to the demonstrators and outperforms state-of-the-art methods. 

Title: Adaptive Conditional Neural Movement Primitives via Representation Sharing Between Supervised and Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Learning by Demonstration provides a sample efficient way to equip robots with complex sensorimotor skills in supervised manner. Several movement primitive representations can be used for flexible motor representation and learning. A recent state-of-the art approach is Conditional Neural Movement Primitives (CNMP) that can learn non-linear relations between environment parameters and complex multi-modal trajectories from a few expert demonstrations by forming powerful latent space representations. In this study, to improve the applicability of CNMP to changing tasks and/or environments, we couple it with a reinforcement learning agent that exploits the formed representations by the original CNMP network, and learns to generate synthetic demonstrations for further learning. This enables the CNMP network to generalize to new environments by adapting its internal representations. In the current implementation, the reinforcement learning agent is triggered when a failure in task execution is detected, and the CNMP is trained with the newly discovered demonstration (trajectory), which shares essential characteristics with the original demonstrations due to the representation sharing. As a result, the overall system increases its capacity and handle situations in scenarios where the initial CNMP network can not produce a useful trajectory. To show the validity of our proposed model, we compare our approach with original CNMP work and other movement primitives approaches. Furthermore, we presents the experimental results from the implementation of the proposed model on real robotics setups, which indicate the applicability of our approach as an effective adaptive learning by demonstration system. 

Title: Human Action Recognition and Assessment via Deep Neural Network Self-Organization
Abstract:  The robust recognition and assessment of human actions are crucial in human-robot interaction (HRI) domains. While state-of-the-art models of action perception show remarkable results in large-scale action datasets, they mostly lack the flexibility, robustness, and scalability needed to operate in natural HRI scenarios which require the continuous acquisition of sensory information as well as the classification or assessment of human body patterns in real time. In this chapter, I introduce a set of hierarchical models for the learning and recognition of actions from depth maps and RGB images through the use of neural network self-organization. A particularity of these models is the use of growing self-organizing networks that quickly adapt to non-stationary distributions and implement dedicated mechanisms for continual learning from temporally correlated input. 

Title: Examining the Use of Temporal-Difference Incremental Delta-Bar-Delta for Real-World Predictive Knowledge Architectures
Abstract:  Predictions and predictive knowledge have seen recent success in improving not only robot control but also other applications ranging from industrial process control to rehabilitation. A property that makes these predictive approaches well suited for robotics is that they can be learned online and incrementally through interaction with the environment. However, a remaining challenge for many prediction-learning approaches is an appropriate choice of prediction-learning parameters, especially parameters that control the magnitude of a learning machine's updates to its predictions (the learning rate or step size). To begin to address this challenge, we examine the use of online step-size adaptation using a sensor-rich robotic arm. Our method of choice, Temporal-Difference Incremental Delta-Bar-Delta (TIDBD), learns and adapts step sizes on a feature level; importantly, TIDBD allows step-size tuning and representation learning to occur at the same time. We show that TIDBD is a practical alternative for classic Temporal-Difference (TD) learning via an extensive parameter search. Both approaches perform comparably in terms of predicting future aspects of a robotic data stream. Furthermore, the use of a step-size adaptation method like TIDBD appears to allow a system to automatically detect and characterize common sensor failures in a robotic application. Together, these results promise to improve the ability of robotic devices to learn from interactions with their environments in a robust way, providing key capabilities for autonomous agents and robots. 

Title: Ego-Pose Estimation and Forecasting as Real-Time PD Control
Abstract:  We propose the use of a proportional-derivative (PD) control based policy learned via reinforcement learning (RL) to estimate and forecast 3D human pose from egocentric videos. The method learns directly from unsegmented egocentric videos and motion capture data consisting of various complex human motions (e.g., crouching, hopping, bending, and motion transitions). We propose a video-conditioned recurrent control technique to forecast physically-valid and stable future motions of arbitrary length. We also introduce a value function based fail-safe mechanism which enables our method to run as a single pass algorithm over the video data. Experiments with both controlled and in-the-wild data show that our approach outperforms previous art in both quantitative metrics and visual quality of the motions, and is also robust enough to transfer directly to real-world scenarios. Additionally, our time analysis shows that the combined use of our pose estimation and forecasting can run at 30 FPS, making it suitable for real-time applications. 

Title: Sequence-to-Sequence Natural Language to Humanoid Robot Sign Language
Abstract:  This paper presents a study on natural language to sign language translation with human-robot interaction application purposes. By means of the presented methodology, the humanoid robot TEO is expected to represent Spanish sign language automatically by converting text into movements, thanks to the performance of neural networks. Natural language to sign language translation presents several challenges to developers, such as the discordance between the length of input and output data and the use of non-manual markers. Therefore, neural networks and, consequently, sequence-to-sequence models, are selected as a data-driven system to avoid traditional expert system approaches or temporal dependencies limitations that lead to limited or too complex translation systems. To achieve these objectives, it is necessary to find a way to perform human skeleton acquisition in order to collect the signing input data. OpenPose and skeletonRetriever are proposed for this purpose and a 3D sensor specification study is developed to select the best acquisition hardware. 

Title: One-Shot High-Fidelity Imitation: Training Large-Scale Deep Nets with RL
Abstract:  Humans are experts at high-fidelity imitation -- closely mimicking a demonstration, often in one attempt. Humans use this ability to quickly solve a task instance, and to bootstrap learning of new tasks. Achieving these abilities in autonomous agents is an open problem. In this paper, we introduce an off-policy RL algorithm (MetaMimic) to narrow this gap. MetaMimic can learn both (i) policies for high-fidelity one-shot imitation of diverse novel skills, and (ii) policies that enable the agent to solve tasks more efficiently than the demonstrators. MetaMimic relies on the principle of storing all experiences in a memory and replaying these to learn massive deep neural network policies by off-policy RL. This paper introduces, to the best of our knowledge, the largest existing neural networks for deep RL and shows that larger networks with normalization are needed to achieve one-shot high-fidelity imitation on a challenging manipulation task. The results also show that both types of policy can be learned from vision, in spite of the task rewards being sparse, and without access to demonstrator actions. 

Title: Sensor Aware Lidar Odometry
Abstract:  A lidar odometry method, integrating into the computation the knowledge about the physics of the sensor, is proposed. A model of measurement error enables higher precision in estimation of the point normal covariance. Adjacent laser beams are used in an outlier correspondence rejection scheme. The method is ranked in the KITTI's leaderboard with 1.37% positioning error. 3.67% is achieved in comparison with the LOAM method on the internal dataset. 

Title: Confidence Regularized Self-Training
Abstract:  Recent advances in domain adaptation show that deep self-training presents a powerful means for unsupervised domain adaptation. These methods often involve an iterative process of predicting on target domain and then taking the confident predictions as pseudo-labels for retraining. However, since pseudo-labels can be noisy, self-training can put overconfident label belief on wrong classes, leading to deviated solutions with propagated errors. To address the problem, we propose a confidence regularized self-training (CRST) framework, formulated as regularized self-training. Our method treats pseudo-labels as continuous latent variables jointly optimized via alternating optimization. We propose two types of confidence regularization: label regularization (LR) and model regularization (MR). CRST-LR generates soft pseudo-labels while CRST-MR encourages the smoothness on network output. Extensive experiments on image classification and semantic segmentation show that CRSTs outperform their non-regularized counterpart with state-of-the-art performance. The code and models of this work are available at https://github.com/yzou2/CRST. 

Title: Evolving neural networks to follow trajectories of arbitrary complexity
Abstract:  Many experiments have been performed that use evolutionary algorithms for learning the topology and connection weights of a neural network that controls a robot or virtual agent. These experiments are not only performed to better understand basic biological principles, but also with the hope that with further progress of the methods, they will become competitive for automatically creating robot behaviors of interest. However, current methods are limited with respect to the (Kolmogorov) complexity of evolved behavior. Using the evolution of robot trajectories as an example, we show that by adding four features, namely (1) freezing of previously evolved structure, (2) temporal scaffolding, (3) a homogeneous transfer function for output nodes, and (4) mutations that create new pathways to outputs, to standard methods for the evolution of neural networks, we can achieve an approximately linear growth of the complexity of behavior over thousands of generations. Overall, evolved complexity is up to two orders of magnitude over that achieved by standard methods in the experiments reported here, with the major limiting factor for further growth being the available run time. Thus, the set of methods proposed here promises to be a useful addition to various current neuroevolution methods. 

Title: Transfer from Simulation to Real World through Learning Deep Inverse Dynamics Model
Abstract:  Developing control policies in simulation is often more practical and safer than directly running experiments in the real world. This applies to policies obtained from planning and optimization, and even more so to policies obtained from reinforcement learning, which is often very data demanding. However, a policy that succeeds in simulation often doesn't work when deployed on a real robot. Nevertheless, often the overall gist of what the policy does in simulation remains valid in the real world. In this paper we investigate such settings, where the sequence of states traversed in simulation remains reasonable for the real world, even if the details of the controls are not, as could be the case when the key differences lie in detailed friction, contact, mass and geometry properties. During execution, at each time step our approach computes what the simulation-based control policy would do, but then, rather than executing these controls on the real robot, our approach computes what the simulation expects the resulting next state(s) will be, and then relies on a learned deep inverse dynamics model to decide which real-world action is most suitable to achieve those next states. Deep models are only as good as their training data, and we also propose an approach for data collection to (incrementally) learn the deep inverse dynamics model. Our experiments shows our approach compares favorably with various baselines that have been developed for dealing with simulation to real world model discrepancy, including output error control and Gaussian dynamics adaptation. 

Title: End-to-End Robotic Reinforcement Learning without Reward Engineering
Abstract:  The combination of deep neural network models and reinforcement learning algorithms can make it possible to learn policies for robotic behaviors that directly read in raw sensory inputs, such as camera images, effectively subsuming both estimation and control into one model. However, real-world applications of reinforcement learning must specify the goal of the task by means of a manually programmed reward function, which in practice requires either designing the very same perception pipeline that end-to-end reinforcement learning promises to avoid, or else instrumenting the environment with additional sensors to determine if the task has been performed successfully. In this paper, we propose an approach for removing the need for manual engineering of reward specifications by enabling a robot to learn from a modest number of examples of successful outcomes, followed by actively solicited queries, where the robot shows the user a state and asks for a label to determine whether that state represents successful completion of the task. While requesting labels for every single state would amount to asking the user to manually provide the reward signal, our method requires labels for only a tiny fraction of the states seen during training, making it an efficient and practical approach for learning skills without manually engineered rewards. We evaluate our method on real-world robotic manipulation tasks where the observations consist of images viewed by the robot's camera. In our experiments, our method effectively learns to arrange objects, place books, and drape cloth, directly from images and without any manually specified reward functions, and with only 1-4 hours of interaction with the real world. 

Title: Research on dynamic target detection and tracking system of hexapod robot
Abstract:  Dynamic target detection and target tracking are hot issues in the field of image. In order to explore its application value in the field of mobile robot, a dynamic target detection and tracking system is designed based on hexapod robot. Firstly, the dynamic target detection method is introduced with region merging and adaptive external point filtering based on motion compensation method. This method achieves the accurate compensation of the moving background through symmetric matching and adaptive external point filtering, and achieves complete detection of non-rigid objects by region merging. Secondly, the application of target tracking algorithm based on KCF in hexapod robot platform is studied, and the Angle tracking of moving target is realized by adaptive adjustment of tracking speed. The last, the architecture of robot monitoring system is designed, which consists of operator, processor, hexapod robot and vision sensor, and the moving object detection and tracking algorithm proposed in this paper is applied to the system. The experimental results show that the improved algorithm can effectively detect and track the moving target when applied to the system of the mobile hexapod robot. 

Title: BlenderProc
Abstract:  BlenderProc is a modular procedural pipeline, which helps in generating real looking images for the training of convolutional neural networks. These can be used in a variety of use cases including segmentation, depth, normal and pose estimation and many others. A key feature of our extension of blender is the simple to use modular pipeline, which was designed to be easily extendable. By offering standard modules, which cover a variety of scenarios, we provide a starting point on which new modules can be created. 

Title: Learning a Local Feature Descriptor for 3D LiDAR Scans
Abstract:  Robust data association is necessary for virtually every SLAM system and finding corresponding points is typically a preprocessing step for scan alignment algorithms. Traditionally, handcrafted feature descriptors were used for these problems but recently learned descriptors have been shown to perform more robustly. In this work, we propose a local feature descriptor for 3D LiDAR scans. The descriptor is learned using a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). Our proposed architecture consists of a Siamese network for learning a feature descriptor and a metric learning network for matching the descriptors. We also present a method for estimating local surface patches and obtaining ground-truth correspondences. In extensive experiments, we compare our learned feature descriptor with existing 3D local descriptors and report highly competitive results for multiple experiments in terms of matching accuracy and computation time. \end{abstract} 

Title: TactileGCN: A Graph Convolutional Network for Predicting Grasp Stability with Tactile Sensors
Abstract:  Tactile sensors provide useful contact data during the interaction with an object which can be used to accurately learn to determine the stability of a grasp. Most of the works in the literature represented tactile readings as plain feature vectors or matrix-like tactile images, using them to train machine learning models. In this work, we explore an alternative way of exploiting tactile information to predict grasp stability by leveraging graph-like representations of tactile data, which preserve the actual spatial arrangement of the sensor's taxels and their locality. In experimentation, we trained a Graph Neural Network to binary classify grasps as stable or slippery ones. To train such network and prove its predictive capabilities for the problem at hand, we captured a novel dataset of approximately 5000 three-fingered grasps across 41 objects for training and 1000 grasps with 10 unknown objects for testing. Our experiments prove that this novel approach can be effectively used to predict grasp stability. 

Title: Addressing Appearance Change in Outdoor Robotics with Adversarial Domain Adaptation
Abstract:  Appearance changes due to weather and seasonal conditions represent a strong impediment to the robust implementation of machine learning systems in outdoor robotics. While supervised learning optimises a model for the training domain, it will deliver degraded performance in application domains that underlie distributional shifts caused by these changes. Traditionally, this problem has been addressed via the collection of labelled data in multiple domains or by imposing priors on the type of shift between both domains. We frame the problem in the context of unsupervised domain adaptation and develop a framework for applying adversarial techniques to adapt popular, state-of-the-art network architectures with the additional objective to align features across domains. Moreover, as adversarial training is notoriously unstable, we first perform an extensive ablation study, adapting many techniques known to stabilise generative adversarial networks, and evaluate on a surrogate classification task with the same appearance change. The distilled insights are applied to the problem of free-space segmentation for motion planning in autonomous driving. 

Title: From explanation to synthesis: Compositional program induction for learning from demonstration
Abstract:  Hybrid systems are a compact and natural mechanism with which to address problems in robotics. This work introduces an approach to learning hybrid systems from demonstrations, with an emphasis on extracting models that are explicitly verifiable and easily interpreted by robot operators. We fit a sequence of controllers using sequential importance sampling under a generative switching proportional controller task model. Here, we parameterise controllers using a proportional gain and a visually verifiable joint angle goal. Inference under this model is challenging, but we address this by introducing an attribution prior extracted from a neural end-to-end visuomotor control model. Given the sequence of controllers comprising a task, we simplify the trace using grammar parsing strategies, taking advantage of the sequence compositionality, before grounding the controllers by training perception networks to predict goals given images. Using this approach, we are successfully able to induce a program for a visuomotor reaching task involving loops and conditionals from a single demonstration and a neural end-to-end model. In addition, we are able to discover the program used for a tower building task. We argue that computer program-like control systems are more interpretable than alternative end-to-end learning approaches, and that hybrid systems inherently allow for better generalisation across task configurations. 

Title: Probabilistic Trajectory Prediction for Autonomous Vehicles with Attentive Recurrent Neural Process
Abstract:  Predicting surrounding vehicle behaviors are critical to autonomous vehicles when negotiating in multi-vehicle interaction scenarios. Most existing approaches require tedious training process with large amounts of data and may fail to capture the propagating uncertainty in interaction behaviors. The multi-vehicle behaviors are assumed to be generated from a stochastic process. This paper proposes an attentive recurrent neural process (ARNP) approach to overcome the above limitations, which uses a neural process (NP) to learn a distribution of multi-vehicle interaction behavior. Our proposed model inherits the flexibility of neural networks while maintaining Bayesian probabilistic characteristics. Constructed by incorporating NPs with recurrent neural networks (RNNs), the ARNP model predicts the distribution of a target vehicle trajectory conditioned on the observed long-term sequential data of all surrounding vehicles. This approach is verified by learning and predicting lane-changing trajectories in complex traffic scenarios. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method outperforms previous counterparts in terms of accuracy and uncertainty expressiveness. Moreover, the meta-learning instinct of NPs enables our proposed ARNP model to capture global information of all observations, thereby being able to adapt to new targets efficiently. 

Title: Learning to Herd Agents Amongst Obstacles: Training Robust Shepherding Behaviors using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Robotic shepherding problem considers the control and navigation of a group of coherent agents (e.g., a flock of bird or a fleet of drones) through the motion of an external robot, called shepherd. Machine learning based methods have successfully solved this problem in an empty environment with no obstacles. Rule-based methods, on the other hand, can handle more complex scenarios in which environments are cluttered with obstacles and allow multiple shepherds to work collaboratively. However, these rule-based methods are fragile due to the difficulty in defining a comprehensive set of rules that can handle all possible cases. To overcome these limitations, we propose the first known learning-based method that can herd agents amongst obstacles. By using deep reinforcement learning techniques combined with the probabilistic roadmaps, we train a shepherding model using noisy but controlled environmental and behavioral parameters. Our experimental results show that the proposed method is robust, namely, it is insensitive to the uncertainties originated from both environmental and behavioral models. Consequently, the proposed method has a higher success rate, shorter completion time and path length than the rule-based behavioral methods have. These advantages are particularly prominent in more challenging scenarios involving more difficult groups and strenuous passages. 

Title: 6-DOF GraspNet: Variational Grasp Generation for Object Manipulation
Abstract:  Generating grasp poses is a crucial component for any robot object manipulation task. In this work, we formulate the problem of grasp generation as sampling a set of grasps using a variational autoencoder and assess and refine the sampled grasps using a grasp evaluator model. Both Grasp Sampler and Grasp Refinement networks take 3D point clouds observed by a depth camera as input. We evaluate our approach in simulation and real-world robot experiments. Our approach achieves 88\% success rate on various commonly used objects with diverse appearances, scales, and weights. Our model is trained purely in simulation and works in the real world without any extra steps. The video of our experiments can be found at: https://research.nvidia.com/publication/2019-10_6-DOF-GraspNet\%3A-Variational 

Title: Asynchronous Methods for Model-Based Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Significant progress has been made in the area of model-based reinforcement learning. State-of-the-art algorithms are now able to match the asymptotic performance of model-free methods while being significantly more data efficient. However, this success has come at a price: state-of-the-art model-based methods require significant computation interleaved with data collection, resulting in run times that take days, even if the amount of agent interaction might be just hours or even minutes. When considering the goal of learning in real-time on real robots, this means these state-of-the-art model-based algorithms still remain impractical. In this work, we propose an asynchronous framework for model-based reinforcement learning methods that brings down the run time of these algorithms to be just the data collection time. We evaluate our asynchronous framework on a range of standard MuJoCo benchmarks. We also evaluate our asynchronous framework on three real-world robotic manipulation tasks. We show how asynchronous learning not only speeds up learning w.r.t wall-clock time through parallelization, but also further reduces the sample complexity of model-based approaches by means of improving the exploration and by means of effectively avoiding the policy overfitting to the deficiencies of learned dynamics models. 

Title: FormulaZero: Distributionally Robust Online Adaptation via Offline Population Synthesis
Abstract:  Balancing performance and safety is crucial to deploying autonomous vehicles in multi-agent environments. In particular, autonomous racing is a domain that penalizes safe but conservative policies, highlighting the need for robust, adaptive strategies. Current approaches either make simplifying assumptions about other agents or lack robust mechanisms for online adaptation. This work makes algorithmic contributions to both challenges. First, to generate a realistic, diverse set of opponents, we develop a novel method for self-play based on replica-exchange Markov chain Monte Carlo. Second, we propose a distributionally robust bandit optimization procedure that adaptively adjusts risk aversion relative to uncertainty in beliefs about opponents' behaviors. We rigorously quantify the tradeoffs in performance and robustness when approximating these computations in real-time motion-planning, and we demonstrate our methods experimentally on autonomous vehicles that achieve scaled speeds comparable to Formula One racecars. 

Title: Inferring 3D Shapes of Unknown Rigid Objects in Clutter through Inverse Physics Reasoning
Abstract:  We present a probabilistic approach for building, on the fly, 3-D models of unknown objects while being manipulated by a robot. We specifically consider manipulation tasks in piles of clutter that contain previously unseen objects. Most manipulation algorithms for performing such tasks require known geometric models of the objects in order to grasp or rearrange them robustly. One of the novel aspects of this work is the utilization of a physics engine for verifying hypothesized geometries in simulation. The evidence provided by physics simulations is used in a probabilistic framework that accounts for the fact that mechanical properties of the objects are uncertain. We present an efficient algorithm for inferring occluded parts of objects based on their observed motions and mutual interactions. Experiments using a robot show that this approach is efficient for constructing physically realistic 3-D models, which can be useful for manipulation planning. Experiments also show that the proposed approach significantly outperforms alternative approaches in terms of shape accuracy. 

Title: Inverse Reinforcement Learning via Deep Gaussian Process
Abstract:  We propose a new approach to inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) based on the deep Gaussian process (deep GP) model, which is capable of learning complicated reward structures with few demonstrations. Our model stacks multiple latent GP layers to learn abstract representations of the state feature space, which is linked to the demonstrations through the Maximum Entropy learning framework. Incorporating the IRL engine into the nonlinear latent structure renders existing deep GP inference approaches intractable. To tackle this, we develop a non-standard variational approximation framework which extends previous inference schemes. This allows for approximate Bayesian treatment of the feature space and guards against overfitting. Carrying out representation and inverse reinforcement learning simultaneously within our model outperforms state-of-the-art approaches, as we demonstrate with experiments on standard benchmarks ("object world","highway driving") and a new benchmark ("binary world"). 

Title: Category-Level Articulated Object Pose Estimation
Abstract:  This project addresses the task of category-level pose estimation for articulated objects from a single depth image. We present a novel category-level approach that correctly accommodates object instances previously unseen during training. We introduce Articulation-aware Normalized Coordinate Space Hierarchy (ANCSH) - a canonical representation for different articulated objects in a given category. As the key to achieve intra-category generalization, the representation constructs a canonical object space as well as a set of canonical part spaces. The canonical object space normalizes the object orientation,scales and articulations (e.g. joint parameters and states) while each canonical part space further normalizes its part pose and scale. We develop a deep network based on PointNet++ that predicts ANCSH from a single depth point cloud, including part segmentation, normalized coordinates, and joint parameters in the canonical object space. By leveraging the canonicalized joints, we demonstrate: 1) improved performance in part pose and scale estimations using the induced kinematic constraints from joints; 2) high accuracy for joint parameter estimation in camera space. 

Title: Real-Time Dense Stereo Embedded in A UAV for Road Inspection
Abstract:  The condition assessment of road surfaces is essential to ensure their serviceability while still providing maximum road traffic safety. This paper presents a robust stereo vision system embedded in an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV). The perspective view of the target image is first transformed into the reference view, and this not only improves the disparity accuracy, but also reduces the algorithm's computational complexity. The cost volumes generated from stereo matching are then filtered using a bilateral filter. The latter has been proved to be a feasible solution for the functional minimisation problem in a fully connected Markov random field model. Finally, the disparity maps are transformed by minimising an energy function with respect to the roll angle and disparity projection model. This makes the damaged road areas more distinguishable from the road surface. The proposed system is implemented on an NVIDIA Jetson TX2 GPU with CUDA for real-time purposes. It is demonstrated through experiments that the damaged road areas can be easily distinguished from the transformed disparity maps. 

Title: Learning to Manipulate Object Collections Using Grounded State Representations
Abstract:  We propose a method for sim-to-real robot learning which exploits simulator state information in a way that scales to many objects. We first train a pair of encoder networks to capture multi-object state information in a latent space. One of these encoders is a CNN, which enables our system to operate on RGB images in the real world; the other is a graph neural network (GNN) state encoder, which directly consumes a set of raw object poses and enables more accurate reward calculation and value estimation. Once trained, we use these encoders in a reinforcement learning algorithm to train image-based policies that can manipulate many objects. We evaluate our method on the task of pushing a collection of objects to desired tabletop regions. Compared to methods which rely only on images or use fixed-length state encodings, our method achieves higher success rates, performs well in the real world without fine tuning, and generalizes to different numbers and types of objects not seen during training. 

Title: RSS-Net: Weakly-Supervised Multi-Class Semantic Segmentation with FMCW Radar
Abstract:  This paper presents an efficient annotation procedure and an application thereof to end-to-end, rich semantic segmentation of the sensed environment using FMCW scanning radar. We advocate radar over the traditional sensors used for this task as it operates at longer ranges and is substantially more robust to adverse weather and illumination conditions. We avoid laborious manual labelling by exploiting the largest radar-focused urban autonomy dataset collected to date, correlating radar scans with RGB cameras and LiDAR sensors, for which semantic segmentation is an already consolidated procedure. The training procedure leverages a state-of-the-art natural image segmentation system which is publicly available and as such, in contrast to previous approaches, allows for the production of copious labels for the radar stream by incorporating four camera and two LiDAR streams. Additionally, the losses are computed taking into account labels to the radar sensor horizon by accumulating LiDAR returns along a pose-chain ahead and behind of the current vehicle position. Finally, we present the network with multi-channel radar scan inputs in order to deal with ephemeral and dynamic scene objects. 

Title: Motion Planning through Demonstration to Deal with Complex Motions in Assembly Process
Abstract:  Complex and skillful motions in actual assembly process are challenging for the robot to generate with existing motion planning approaches, because some key poses during the human assembly can be too skillful for the robot to realize automatically. In order to deal with this problem, this paper develops a motion planning method using skillful motions from demonstration, which can be applied to complete robotic assembly process including complex and skillful motions. In order to demonstrate conveniently without redundant third-party devices, we attach augmented reality (AR) markers to the manipulated object to track and capture poses of the object during the human assembly process, which are employed as key poses to execute motion planning by the planner. Derivative of every key pose serves as criterion to determine the priority of use of key poses in order to accelerate the motion planning. The effectiveness of the presented method is verified through some numerical examples and actual robot experiments. 

Title: Pixel Invisibility: Detecting Objects Invisible in Color Images
Abstract:  Despite recent success of object detectors using deep neural networks, their deployment on safety-critical applications such as self-driving cars remains questionable. This is partly due to the absence of reliable estimation for detectors' failure under operational conditions such as night, fog, dusk, dawn and glare. Such unquantifiable failures could lead to safety violations. In order to solve this problem, we created an algorithm that predicts a pixel-level invisibility map for color images that does not require manual labeling - that computes the probability that a pixel/region contains objects that are invisible in color domain, during various lighting conditions such as day, night and fog. We propose a novel use of cross modal knowledge distillation from color to infra-red domain using weakly-aligned image pairs from the day and construct indicators for the pixel-level invisibility based on the distances of their intermediate-level features. Quantitative experiments show the great performance of our pixel-level invisibility mask and also the effectiveness of distilled mid-level features on object detection in infra-red imagery. 

Title: Divide-and-Conquer Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Standard model-free deep reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms sample a new initial state for each trial, allowing them to optimize policies that can perform well even in highly stochastic environments. However, problems that exhibit considerable initial state variation typically produce high-variance gradient estimates for model-free RL, making direct policy or value function optimization challenging. In this paper, we develop a novel algorithm that instead partitions the initial state space into "slices", and optimizes an ensemble of policies, each on a different slice. The ensemble is gradually unified into a single policy that can succeed on the whole state space. This approach, which we term divide-and-conquer RL, is able to solve complex tasks where conventional deep RL methods are ineffective. Our results show that divide-and-conquer RL greatly outperforms conventional policy gradient methods on challenging grasping, manipulation, and locomotion tasks, and exceeds the performance of a variety of prior methods. Videos of policies learned by our algorithm can be viewed at http://bit.ly/dnc-rl 

Title: Adaptive Cost Function for Pointcloud Registration
Abstract:  In this paper we introduce an adaptive cost function for pointcloud registration. The algorithm automatically estimates the sensor noise, which is important for generalization across different sensors and environments. Through experiments on real and synthetic data, we show significant improvements in accuracy and robustness over state-of-the-art solutions. 

Title: Vision System and Depth Processing for DRC-HUBO+
Abstract:  This paper presents a vision system and a depth processing algorithm for DRC-HUBO+, the winner of the DRC finals 2015. Our system is designed to reliably capture 3D information of a scene and objects robust to challenging environment conditions. We also propose a depth-map upsampling method that produces an outliers-free depth map by explicitly handling depth outliers. Our system is suitable for an interactive robot with real-world that requires accurate object detection and pose estimation. We evaluate our depth processing algorithm over state-of-the-art algorithms on several synthetic and real-world datasets. 

Title: COROLA: A Sequential Solution to Moving Object Detection Using Low-rank Approximation
Abstract:  Extracting moving objects from a video sequence and estimating the background of each individual image are fundamental issues in many practical applications such as visual surveillance, intelligent vehicle navigation, and traffic monitoring. Recently, some methods have been proposed to detect moving objects in a video via low-rank approximation and sparse outliers where the background is modeled with the computed low-rank component of the video and the foreground objects are detected as the sparse outliers in the low-rank approximation. All of these existing methods work in a batch manner, preventing them from being applied in real time and long duration tasks. In this paper, we present an online sequential framework, namely contiguous outliers representation via online low-rank approximation (COROLA), to detect moving objects and learn the background model at the same time. We also show that our model can detect moving objects with a moving camera. Our experimental evaluation uses simulated data and real public datasets and demonstrates the superior performance of COROLA in terms of both accuracy and execution time. 

Title: Learning to Switch CNNs with Model Agnostic Meta Learning for Fine Precision Visual Servoing
Abstract:  Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have been successfully applied for relative camera pose estimation from labeled image-pair data, without requiring any hand-engineered features, camera intrinsic parameters or depth information. The trained CNN can be utilized for performing pose based visual servo control (PBVS). One of the ways to improve the quality of visual servo output is to improve the accuracy of the CNN for estimating the relative pose estimation. With a given state-of-the-art CNN for relative pose regression, how can we achieve an improved performance for visual servo control? In this paper, we explore switching of CNNs to improve the precision of visual servo control. The idea of switching a CNN is due to the fact that the dataset for training a relative camera pose regressor for visual servo control must contain variations in relative pose ranging from a very small scale to eventually a larger scale. We found that, training two different instances of the CNN, one for large-scale-displacements (LSD) and another for small-scale-displacements (SSD) and switching them during the visual servo execution yields better results than training a single CNN with the combined LSD+SSD data. However, it causes extra storage overhead and switching decision is taken by a manually set threshold which may not be optimal for all the scenes. To eliminate these drawbacks, we propose an efficient switching strategy based on model agnostic meta learning (MAML) algorithm. In this, a single model is trained to learn parameters which are simultaneously good for multiple tasks, namely a binary classification for switching decision, a 6DOF pose regression for LSD data and also a 6DOF pose regression for SSD data. The proposed approach performs far better than the naive approach, while storage and run-time overheads are almost negligible. 

Title: Data-driven Koopman Operators for Model-based Shared Control of Human-Machine Systems
Abstract:  We present a data-driven shared control algorithm that can be used to improve a human operator's control of complex dynamic machines and achieve tasks that would otherwise be challenging, or impossible, for the user on their own. Our method assumes no a priori knowledge of the system dynamics. Instead, both the dynamics and information about the user's interaction are learned from observation through the use of a Koopman operator. Using the learned model, we define an optimization problem to compute the autonomous partner's control policy. Finally, we dynamically allocate control authority to each partner based on a comparison of the user input and the autonomously generated control. We refer to this idea as model-based shared control (MbSC). We evaluate the efficacy of our approach with two human subjects studies consisting of 32 total participants (16 subjects in each study). The first study imposes a linear constraint on the modeling and autonomous policy generation algorithms. The second study explores the more general, nonlinear variant. Overall, we find that model-based shared control significantly improves task and control metrics when compared to a natural learning, or user only, control paradigm. Our experiments suggest that models learned via the Koopman operator generalize across users, indicating that it is not necessary to collect data from each individual user before providing assistance with MbSC. We also demonstrate the data-efficiency of MbSC and consequently, it's usefulness in online learning paradigms. Finally, we find that the nonlinear variant has a greater impact on a user's ability to successfully achieve a defined task than the linear variant. 

Title: Fanoos: Multi-Resolution, Multi-Strength, Interactive Explanations for Learned Systems
Abstract:  Machine learning becomes increasingly important to tune or even synthesize the behavior of safety-critical components in highly non-trivial environments, where the inability to understand learned components in general, and neural nets in particular, poses serious obstacles to their adoption. Explainability and interpretability methods for learned systems have gained considerable academic attention, but the focus of current approaches on only one aspect of explanation, at a fixed level of abstraction, and limited if any formal guarantees, prevents those explanations from being digestible by the relevant stakeholders (e.g., end users, certification authorities, engineers) with their diverse backgrounds and situation-specific needs. We introduce Fanoos, a flexible framework for combining formal verification techniques, heuristic search, and user interaction to explore explanations at the desired level of granularity and fidelity. We demonstrate the ability of Fanoos to produce and adjust the abstractness of explanations in response to user requests on a learned controller for an inverted double pendulum and on a learned CPU usage model. 

Title: Generalization Guarantees for Multi-Modal Imitation Learning
Abstract:  Control policies from imitation learning can often fail to generalize to novel environments due to imperfect demonstrations or the inability of imitation learning algorithms to accurately infer the expert's policies. In this paper, we present rigorous generalization guarantees for imitation learning by leveraging the Probably Approximately Correct (PAC)-Bayes framework to provide upper bounds on the expected cost of policies in novel environments. We propose a two-stage training method where a latent policy distribution is first embedded with multi-modal expert behavior using a conditional variational autoencoder, and then "fine-tuned" in new training environments to explicitly optimize the generalization bound. We demonstrate strong generalization bounds and their tightness relative to empirical performance in simulation for (i) grasping diverse mugs, (ii) planar pushing with visual feedback, and (iii) vision-based indoor navigation, as well as through hardware experiments for the two manipulation tasks. 

Title: A Relation Spectrum Inheriting Taylor Series: Muscle Synergy and Coupling for Hand
Abstract:  There are two famous function decomposition methods in math: 1) Taylor Series and 2) Fourier Series. The Fourier series developed into the Fourier spectrum, which was applied to signal analysis. However, Because a function without a functional expression cannot be solved for its Taylor series, Taylor Series has rarely been used in engineering. Here we have solved this problem, learned from Fourier, developed Taylor series, constructed a relation spectrum, and applied it to system analysis. Specific engineering application: the knowledge of the intuitive link between muscle activity and the finger movement is vital for the design of commercial prosthetic hands that do not need user pre-training. However, this link has yet to be understood due to the complexity of human hand. In this study, the relation spectrum was developed for the first time and applied to analyze the muscle-finger system. We established controllable and human-readable polynomial neural network (CR-PNN) models for six degrees of freedom ( DOFs) in 8 subjects. Multiple fingers may be controlled by a single muscle, or multiple muscles may control a single finger. Thus, the research is based on two aspects: muscle synergy and muscle coupling for hand. The research gave the relation spectrum of the muscle-finger system and the knowledge of muscle coupling. The article is very short but significant. The contributions of this paper can be divided into two parts: (1) The findings of hand can contribute to design prosthetic hands. (2) The relation spectrum using CR-PNN can provide a reference for analyzing complex systems in multiple areas. (We're strong believers in Open Source, and provide CR-PNN code for others. GitHub: https://github.com/liugang1234567/CR-PNN#cr-pnn. ) 

Title: Real-time Monocular Object SLAM
Abstract:  We present a real-time object-based SLAM system that leverages the largest object database to date. Our approach comprises two main components: 1) a monocular SLAM algorithm that exploits object rigidity constraints to improve the map and find its real scale, and 2) a novel object recognition algorithm based on bags of binary words, which provides live detections with a database of 500 3D objects. The two components work together and benefit each other: the SLAM algorithm accumulates information from the observations of the objects, anchors object features to especial map landmarks and sets constrains on the optimization. At the same time, objects partially or fully located within the map are used as a prior to guide the recognition algorithm, achieving higher recall. We evaluate our proposal on five real environments showing improvements on the accuracy of the map and efficiency with respect to other state-of-the-art techniques. 

Title: Toward Ergonomic Risk Prediction via Segmentation of Indoor Object Manipulation Actions Using Spatiotemporal Convolutional Networks
Abstract:  Automated real-time prediction of the ergonomic risks of manipulating objects is a key unsolved challenge in developing effective human-robot collaboration systems for logistics and manufacturing applications. We present a foundational paradigm to address this challenge by formulating the problem as one of action segmentation from RGB-D camera videos. Spatial features are first learned using a deep convolutional model from the video frames, which are then fed sequentially to temporal convolutional networks to semantically segment the frames into a hierarchy of actions, which are either ergonomically safe, require monitoring, or need immediate attention. For performance evaluation, in addition to an open-source kitchen dataset, we collected a new dataset comprising twenty individuals picking up and placing objects of varying weights to and from cabinet and table locations at various heights. Results show very high (87-94)\% F1 overlap scores among the ground truth and predicted frame labels for videos lasting over two minutes and consisting of a large number of actions. 

Title: Learning a Curve Guardian for Motorcycles
Abstract:  Up to 17% of all motorcycle accidents occur when the rider is maneuvering through a curve and the main cause of curve accidents can be attributed to inappropriate speed and wrong intra-lane position of the motorcycle. Existing curve warning systems lack crucial state estimation components and do not scale well. We propose a new type of road curvature warning system for motorcycles, combining the latest advances in computer vision, optimal control and mapping technologies to alleviate these shortcomings. Our contributes are fourfold: 1) we predict the motorcycle's intra-lane position using a convolutional neural network (CNN), 2) we predict the motorcycle roll angle using a CNN, 3) we use an upgraded controller model that incorporates road incline for a more realistic model and prediction, 4) we design a scale-able system by utilizing HERE Technologies map database to obtain the accurate road geometry of the future path. In addition, we present two datasets that are used for training and evaluating of our system respectively, both datasets will be made publicly available. We test our system on a diverse set of real world scenarios and present a detailed case-study. We show that our system is able to predict more accurate and safer curve trajectories, and consequently warn and improve the safety for motorcyclists. 

Title: Autonomous Control of a Line Follower Robot Using a Q-Learning Controller
Abstract:  In this paper, a MIMO simulated annealing SA based Q learning method is proposed to control a line follower robot. The conventional controller for these types of robots is the proportional P controller. Considering the unknown mechanical characteristics of the robot and uncertainties such as friction and slippery surfaces, system modeling and controller designing can be extremely challenging. The mathematical modeling for the robot is presented in this paper, and a simulator is designed based on this model. The basic Q learning methods are based pure exploitation and the epsilon-greedy methods, which help exploration, can harm the controller performance after learning completion by exploring nonoptimal actions. The simulated annealing based Q learning method tackles this drawback by decreasing the exploration rate when the learning increases. The simulation and experimental results are provided to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed controller. 

Title: RV-FuseNet: Range View based Fusion of Time-Series LiDAR Data for Joint 3D Object Detection and Motion Forecasting
Abstract:  Autonomous vehicles rely on robust real-time detection and future motion prediction of traffic participants to safely navigate urban environments. We present a novel end-to-end approach that uses raw time-series LiDAR data to jointly solve both detection and prediction. We use the range view representation of LiDAR instead of voxelization since it does not discard information and is more efficient due to its compactness. However, for time-series fusion the data needs to be projected to a common viewpoint, and often this viewpoint is different from where it was captured leading to distortions. These distortions have an adverse impact on performance. Thus, we propose a novel architecture which reduces the impact of distortions by sequentially projecting each sweep into the viewpoint of the next sweep in time. We demonstrate that our sequential fusion approach is superior to methods that directly project all the data into the most recent viewpoint. Furthermore, we compare our approach to existing state-of-the art methods on multiple autonomous driving datasets and show competitive results. 

Title: Composing Diverse Policies for Temporally Extended Tasks
Abstract:  Robot control policies for temporally extended and sequenced tasks are often characterized by discontinuous switches between different local dynamics. These change-points are often exploited in hierarchical motion planning to build approximate models and to facilitate the design of local, region-specific controllers. However, it becomes combinatorially challenging to implement such a pipeline for complex temporally extended tasks, especially when the sub-controllers work on different information streams, time scales and action spaces. In this paper, we introduce a method that can compose diverse policies comprising motion planning trajectories, dynamic motion primitives and neural network controllers. We introduce a global goal scoring estimator that uses local, per-motion primitive dynamics models and corresponding activation state-space sets to sequence diverse policies in a locally optimal fashion. We use expert demonstrations to convert what is typically viewed as a gradient-based learning process into a planning process without explicitly specifying pre- and post-conditions. We first illustrate the proposed framework using an MDP benchmark to showcase robustness to action and model dynamics mismatch, and then with a particularly complex physical gear assembly task, solved on a PR2 robot. We show that the proposed approach successfully discovers the optimal sequence of controllers and solves both tasks efficiently. 

Title: Scalable Tactile Sensing for an Omni-adaptive Soft Robot Finger
Abstract:  Robotic fingers made of soft material and compliant structures usually lead to superior adaptation when interacting with the unstructured physical environment. In this paper, we present an embedded sensing solution using optical fibers for an omni-adaptive soft robotic finger with exceptional adaptation in all directions. In particular, we managed to insert a pair of optical fibers inside the finger's structural cavity without interfering with its adaptive performance. The resultant integration is scalable as a versatile, low-cost, and moisture-proof solution for physically safe human-robot interaction. In addition, we experimented with our finger design for an object sorting task and identified sectional diameters of 94\% objects within the $\pm$6mm error and measured 80\% of the structural strains within $\pm$0.1mm/mm error. The proposed sensor design opens many doors in future applications of soft robotics for scalable and adaptive physical interactions in the unstructured environment. 

Title: Real-Time Visual Place Recognition for Personal Localization on a Mobile Device
Abstract:  The paper presents an approach to indoor personal localization on a mobile device based on visual place recognition. We implemented on a smartphone two state-of-the-art algorithms that are representative to two different approaches to visual place recognition: FAB-MAP that recognizes places using individual images, and ABLE-M that utilizes sequences of images. These algorithms are evaluated in environments of different structure, focusing on problems commonly encountered when a mobile device camera is used. The conclusions drawn from this evaluation are guidelines to design the FastABLE system, which is based on the ABLE-M algorithm, but introduces major modifications to the concept of image matching. The improvements radically cut down the processing time and improve scalability, making it possible to localize the user in long image sequences with the limited computing power of a mobile device. The resulting place recognition system compares favorably to both the ABLE-M and the FAB-MAP solutions in the context of real-time personal localization. 

Title: Graph Neural Networks for Human-aware Social Navigation
Abstract:  Autonomous navigation is a key skill for assistive and service robots. To be successful, robots have to navigate avoiding going through the personal spaces of the people surrounding them. Complying with social rules such as not getting in the middle of human-to-human and human-to-object interactions is also important. This paper suggests using Graph Neural Networks to model how inconvenient the presence of a robot would be in a particular scenario according to learned human conventions so that it can be used by path planning algorithms. To do so, we propose two ways of modelling social interactions using graphs and benchmark them with different Graph Neural Networks using the SocNav1 dataset. We achieve close-to-human performance in the dataset and argue that, in addition to promising results, the main advantage of the approach is its scalability in terms of the number of social factors that can be considered and easily embedded in code, in comparison with model-based approaches. The code used to train and test the resulting graph neural network is available in a public repository. 

Title: Disentangling Human Dynamics for Pedestrian Locomotion Forecasting with Noisy Supervision
Abstract:  We tackle the problem of Human Locomotion Forecasting, a task for jointly predicting the spatial positions of several keypoints on the human body in the near future under an egocentric setting. In contrast to the previous work that aims to solve either the task of pose prediction or trajectory forecasting in isolation, we propose a framework to unify the two problems and address the practically useful task of pedestrian locomotion prediction in the wild. Among the major challenges in solving this task is the scarcity of annotated egocentric video datasets with dense annotations for pose, depth, or egomotion. To surmount this difficulty, we use state-of-the-art models to generate (noisy) annotations and propose robust forecasting models that can learn from this noisy supervision. We present a method to disentangle the overall pedestrian motion into easier to learn subparts by utilizing a pose completion and a decomposition module. The completion module fills in the missing key-point annotations and the decomposition module breaks the cleaned locomotion down to global (trajectory) and local (pose keypoint movements). Further, with Quasi RNN as our backbone, we propose a novel hierarchical trajectory forecasting network that utilizes low-level vision domain specific signals like egomotion and depth to predict the global trajectory. Our method leads to state-of-the-art results for the prediction of human locomotion in the egocentric view. Project pade: https://karttikeya.github.io/publication/plf/ 

Title: Localising Faster: Efficient and precise lidar-based robot localisation in large-scale environments
Abstract:  This paper proposes a novel approach for global localisation of mobile robots in large-scale environments. Our method leverages learning-based localisation and filtering-based localisation, to localise the robot efficiently and precisely through seeding Monte Carlo Localisation (MCL) with a deep-learned distribution. In particular, a fast localisation system rapidly estimates the 6-DOF pose through a deep-probabilistic model (Gaussian Process Regression with a deep kernel), then a precise recursive estimator refines the estimated robot pose according to the geometric alignment. More importantly, the Gaussian method (i.e. deep probabilistic localisation) and non-Gaussian method (i.e. MCL) can be integrated naturally via importance sampling. Consequently, the two systems can be integrated seamlessly and mutually benefit from each other. To verify the proposed framework, we provide a case study in large-scale localisation with a 3D lidar sensor. Our experiments on the Michigan NCLT long-term dataset show that the proposed method is able to localise the robot in 1.94 s on average (median of 0.8 s) with precision 0.75~m in a large-scale environment of approximately 0.5 km2. 

Title: Visual Foresight: Model-Based Deep Reinforcement Learning for Vision-Based Robotic Control
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms can learn complex robotic skills from raw sensory inputs, but have yet to achieve the kind of broad generalization and applicability demonstrated by deep learning methods in supervised domains. We present a deep RL method that is practical for real-world robotics tasks, such as robotic manipulation, and generalizes effectively to never-before-seen tasks and objects. In these settings, ground truth reward signals are typically unavailable, and we therefore propose a self-supervised model-based approach, where a predictive model learns to directly predict the future from raw sensory readings, such as camera images. At test time, we explore three distinct goal specification methods: designated pixels, where a user specifies desired object manipulation tasks by selecting particular pixels in an image and corresponding goal positions, goal images, where the desired goal state is specified with an image, and image classifiers, which define spaces of goal states. Our deep predictive models are trained using data collected autonomously and continuously by a robot interacting with hundreds of objects, without human supervision. We demonstrate that visual MPC can generalize to never-before-seen objects---both rigid and deformable---and solve a range of user-defined object manipulation tasks using the same model. 

Title: Bayes-CPACE: PAC Optimal Exploration in Continuous Space Bayes-Adaptive Markov Decision Processes
Abstract:  We present the first PAC optimal algorithm for Bayes-Adaptive Markov Decision Processes (BAMDPs) in continuous state and action spaces, to the best of our knowledge. The BAMDP framework elegantly addresses model uncertainty by incorporating Bayesian belief updates into long-term expected return. However, computing an exact optimal Bayesian policy is intractable. Our key insight is to compute a near-optimal value function by covering the continuous state-belief-action space with a finite set of representative samples and exploiting the Lipschitz continuity of the value function. We prove the near-optimality of our algorithm and analyze a number of schemes that boost the algorithm's efficiency. Finally, we empirically validate our approach on a number of discrete and continuous BAMDPs and show that the learned policy has consistently competitive performance against baseline approaches. 

Title: Robotic Room Traversal using Optical Range Finding
Abstract:  Consider the goal of visiting every part of a room that is not blocked by obstacles. Doing so efficiently requires both sensors and planning. Our findings suggest a method of inexpensive optical range finding for robotic room traversal. Our room traversal algorithm relies upon the approximate distance from the robot to the nearest obstacle in 360 degrees. We then choose the path with the furthest approximate distance. Since millimeter-precision is not required for our problem, we have opted to develop our own laser range finding solution, in lieu of using more common, but also expensive solutions like light detection and ranging (LIDAR). Rather, our solution uses a laser that casts a visible dot on the target and a common camera (an iPhone, for example). Based upon where in the camera frame the laser dot is detected, we may calculate an angle between our target and the laser aperture. Using this angle and the known distance between the camera eye and the laser aperture, we may solve all sides of a trigonometric model which provides the distance between the robot and the target. 

Title: Spatiotemporal Learning of Multivehicle Interaction Patterns in Lane-Change Scenarios
Abstract:  Interpretation of common-yet-challenging interaction scenarios can benefit well-founded decisions for autonomous vehicles. Previous research achieved this using their prior knowledge of specific scenarios with predefined models, which limits their adaptive capabilities. This paper describes a Bayesian nonparametric approach that leverages continuous (i.e., Gaussian processes) and discrete (i.e., Dirichlet processes) stochastic processes to reveal underlying interaction patterns of the ego vehicle with other nearby vehicles. Our model relaxes dependency on the number of surrounding vehicles by developing an acceleration-sensitive velocity field based on Gaussian processes. The experiment results demonstrate that the velocity field can represent the spatial interactions between the ego vehicle and its surroundings. Then, a discrete Bayesian nonparametric model, integrating Dirichlet processes and hidden Markov models, is developed to learn the interaction patterns over the temporal space by segmenting and clustering the sequential interaction data into interpretable granular patterns automatically. We then evaluate our approach in the highway lane-change scenarios using the highD dataset, which was collected from real-world settings. Results demonstrate that our proposed Bayesian nonparametric approach provides an insight into the complicated lane-change interactions of the ego vehicle with multiple surrounding traffic participants based on the interpretable interaction patterns and their transition properties in temporal relationships. Our proposed approach sheds light on efficiently analyzing other kinds of multi-agent interactions, such as vehicle-pedestrian interactions. 

Title: Semiparametrical Gaussian Processes Learning of Forward Dynamical Models for Navigating in a Circular Maze
Abstract:  This paper presents a problem of model learning for the purpose of learning how to navigate a ball to a goal state in a circular maze environment with two degrees of freedom. The motion of the ball in the maze environment is influenced by several non-linear effects such as dry friction and contacts, which are difficult to model physically. We propose a semiparametric model to estimate the motion dynamics of the ball based on Gaussian Process Regression equipped with basis functions obtained from physics first principles. The accuracy of this semiparametric model is shown not only in estimation but also in prediction at n-steps ahead and its compared with standard algorithms for model learning. The learned model is then used in a trajectory optimization algorithm to compute ball trajectories. We propose the system presented in the paper as a benchmark problem for reinforcement and robot learning, for its interesting and challenging dynamics and its relative ease of reproducibility. 

Title: Towards Object Detection from Motion
Abstract:  We present a novel approach to weakly supervised object detection. Instead of annotated images, our method only requires two short videos to learn to detect a new object: 1) a video of a moving object and 2) one or more "negative" videos of the scene without the object. The key idea of our algorithm is to train the object detector to produce physically plausible object motion when applied to the first video and to not detect anything in the second video. With this approach, our method learns to locate objects without any object location annotations. Once the model is trained, it performs object detection on single images. We evaluate our method in three robotics settings that afford learning objects from motion: observing moving objects, watching demonstrations of object manipulation, and physically interacting with objects (see a video summary at https://youtu.be/BH0Hv3zZG_4). 

Title: A Data-Efficient Approach to Precise and Controlled Pushing
Abstract:  Decades of research in control theory have shown that simple controllers, when provided with timely feedback, can control complex systems. Pushing is an example of a complex mechanical system that is difficult to model accurately due to unknown system parameters such as coefficients of friction and pressure distributions. In this paper, we explore the data-complexity required for controlling, rather than modeling, such a system. Results show that a model-based control approach, where the dynamical model is learned from data, is capable of performing complex pushing trajectories with a minimal amount of training data (10 data points). The dynamics of pushing interactions are modeled using a Gaussian process (GP) and are leveraged within a model predictive control approach that linearizes the GP and imposes actuator and task constraints for a planar manipulation task. 

Title: Topological Mapping for Manhattan-like Repetitive Environments
Abstract:  We showcase a topological mapping framework for a challenging indoor warehouse setting. At the most abstract level, the warehouse is represented as a Topological Graph where the nodes of the graph represent a particular warehouse topological construct (e.g. rackspace, corridor) and the edges denote the existence of a path between two neighbouring nodes or topologies. At the intermediate level, the map is represented as a Manhattan Graph where the nodes and edges are characterized by Manhattan properties and as a Pose Graph at the lower-most level of detail. The topological constructs are learned via a Deep Convolutional Network while the relational properties between topological instances are learnt via a Siamese-style Neural Network. In the paper, we show that maintaining abstractions such as Topological Graph and Manhattan Graph help in recovering an accurate Pose Graph starting from a highly erroneous and unoptimized Pose Graph. We show how this is achieved by embedding topological and Manhattan relations as well as Manhattan Graph aided loop closure relations as constraints in the backend Pose Graph optimization framework. The recovery of near ground-truth Pose Graph on real-world indoor warehouse scenes vindicate the efficacy of the proposed framework. 

Title: Multi-Vehicle Mixed-Reality Reinforcement Learning for Autonomous Multi-Lane Driving
Abstract:  Autonomous driving promises to transform road transport. Multi-vehicle and multi-lane scenarios, however, present unique challenges due to constrained navigation and unpredictable vehicle interactions. Learning-based methods---such as deep reinforcement learning---are emerging as a promising approach to automatically design intelligent driving policies that can cope with these challenges. Yet, the process of safely learning multi-vehicle driving behaviours is hard: while collisions---and their near-avoidance---are essential to the learning process, directly executing immature policies on autonomous vehicles raises considerable safety concerns. In this article, we present a safe and efficient framework that enables the learning of driving policies for autonomous vehicles operating in a shared workspace, where the absence of collisions cannot be guaranteed. Key to our learning procedure is a sim2real approach that uses real-world online policy adaptation in a mixed-reality setup, where other vehicles and static obstacles exist in the virtual domain. This allows us to perform safe learning by simulating (and learning from) collisions between the learning agent(s) and other objects in virtual reality. Our results demonstrate that, after only a few runs in mixed-reality, collisions are significantly reduced. 

Title: IRS: A Large Synthetic Indoor Robotics Stereo Dataset for Disparity and Surface Normal Estimation
Abstract:  Indoor robotics localization, navigation and interaction heavily rely on scene understanding and reconstruction. Compared to monocular vision which usually does not explicitly introduce any geometrical constraint, stereo vision based schemes are more promising and robust to produce accurate geometrical information, such as surface normal and depth/disparity. Besides, deep learning models trained with large-scale datasets have shown their superior performance in many stereo vision tasks. However, existing stereo datasets rarely contain the high-quality surface normal and disparity ground truth, which hardly satisfy the demand of training a prospective deep model for indoor scenes. To this end, we introduce a large-scale synthetic indoor robotics stereo (IRS) dataset with over 100K stereo RGB images and high-quality surface normal and disparity maps. Leveraging the advanced rendering techniques of our customized rendering engine, the dataset is considerably close to the real-world captured images and covers several visual effects, such as brightness changes, light reflection/transmission, lens flare, vivid shadow, etc. We compare the data distribution of IRS with existing stereo datasets to illustrate the typical visual attributes of indoor scenes. In addition, we present a new deep model DispNormNet to simultaneously infer surface normal and disparity from stereo images. Compared to existing models trained on other datasets, DispNormNet trained with IRS produces much better estimation of surface normal and disparity for indoor scenes. 

Title: SATR-DL: Improving Surgical Skill Assessment and Task Recognition in Robot-assisted Surgery with Deep Neural Networks
Abstract:  Purpose: This paper focuses on an automated analysis of surgical motion profiles for objective skill assessment and task recognition in robot-assisted surgery. Existing techniques heavily rely on conventional statistic measures or shallow modelings based on hand-engineered features and gesture segmentation. Such developments require significant expert knowledge, are prone to errors, and are less efficient in online adaptive training systems. Methods: In this work, we present an efficient analytic framework with a parallel deep learning architecture, SATR-DL, to assess trainee expertise and recognize surgical training activity. Through an end-to-end learning technique, abstract information of spatial representations and temporal dynamics is jointly obtained directly from raw motion sequences. Results: By leveraging a shared high-level representation learning, the resulting model is successful in the recognition of trainee skills and surgical tasks, suturing, needle-passing, and knot-tying. Meanwhile, we explore the use of ensemble in classification at the trial level, where the SATR-DL outperforms state-of-the-art performance by achieving accuracies of 0.960 and 1.000 in skill assessment and task recognition, respectively. Conclusion: This study highlights the potential of SATR-DL to provide improvements for an efficient data-driven assessment in intelligent robotic surgery. 

Title: Deep Object-Centric Policies for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  While learning visuomotor skills in an end-to-end manner is appealing, deep neural networks are often uninterpretable and fail in surprising ways. For robotics tasks, such as autonomous driving, models that explicitly represent objects may be more robust to new scenes and provide intuitive visualizations. We describe a taxonomy of "object-centric" models which leverage both object instances and end-to-end learning. In the Grand Theft Auto V simulator, we show that object-centric models outperform object-agnostic methods in scenes with other vehicles and pedestrians, even with an imperfect detector. We also demonstrate that our architectures perform well on real-world environments by evaluating on the Berkeley DeepDrive Video dataset, where an object-centric model outperforms object-agnostic models in the low-data regimes. 

Title: MuPNet: Multi-modal Predictive Coding Network for Place Recognition by Unsupervised Learning of Joint Visuo-Tactile Latent Representations
Abstract:  Extracting and binding salient information from different sensory modalities to determine common features in the environment is a significant challenge in robotics. Here we present MuPNet (Multi-modal Predictive Coding Network), a biologically plausible network architecture for extracting joint latent features from visuo-tactile sensory data gathered from a biomimetic mobile robot. In this study we evaluate MuPNet applied to place recognition as a simulated biomimetic robot platform explores visually aliased environments. The F1 scores demonstrate that its performance over prior hand-crafted sensory feature extraction techniques is equivalent under controlled conditions, with significant improvement when operating in novel environments. 

Title: Probabilistic Trajectory Segmentation by Means of Hierarchical Dirichlet Process Switching Linear Dynamical Systems
Abstract:  Using movement primitive libraries is an effective means to enable robots to solve more complex tasks. In order to build these movement libraries, current algorithms require a prior segmentation of the demonstration trajectories. A promising approach is to model the trajectory as being generated by a set of Switching Linear Dynamical Systems and inferring a meaningful segmentation by inspecting the transition points characterized by the switching dynamics. With respect to the learning, a nonparametric Bayesian approach is employed utilizing a Gibbs sampler. 

Title: Domain Randomization and Generative Models for Robotic Grasping
Abstract:  Deep learning-based robotic grasping has made significant progress thanks to algorithmic improvements and increased data availability. However, state-of-the-art models are often trained on as few as hundreds or thousands of unique object instances, and as a result generalization can be a challenge. In this work, we explore a novel data generation pipeline for training a deep neural network to perform grasp planning that applies the idea of domain randomization to object synthesis. We generate millions of unique, unrealistic procedurally generated objects, and train a deep neural network to perform grasp planning on these objects. Since the distribution of successful grasps for a given object can be highly multimodal, we propose an autoregressive grasp planning model that maps sensor inputs of a scene to a probability distribution over possible grasps. This model allows us to sample grasps efficiently at test time (or avoid sampling entirely). We evaluate our model architecture and data generation pipeline in simulation and the real world. We find we can achieve a $>$90% success rate on previously unseen realistic objects at test time in simulation despite having only been trained on random objects. We also demonstrate an 80% success rate on real-world grasp attempts despite having only been trained on random simulated objects. 

Title: Ensemble of Sparse Gaussian Process Experts for Implicit Surface Mapping with Streaming Data
Abstract:  Creating maps is an essential task in robotics and provides the basis for effective planning and navigation. In this paper, we learn a compact and continuous implicit surface map of an environment from a stream of range data with known poses. For this, we create and incrementally adjust an ensemble of approximate Gaussian process (GP) experts which are each responsible for a different part of the map. Instead of inserting all arriving data into the GP models, we greedily trade-off between model complexity and prediction error. Our algorithm therefore uses less resources on areas with few geometric features and more where the environment is rich in variety. We evaluate our approach on synthetic and real-world data sets and analyze sensitivity to parameters and measurement noise. The results show that we can learn compact and accurate implicit surface models under different conditions, with a performance comparable to or better than that of exact GP regression with subsampled data. 

Title: Vision-Guided Robot Hearing
Abstract:  Natural human-robot interaction in complex and unpredictable environments is one of the main research lines in robotics. In typical real-world scenarios, humans are at some distance from the robot and the acquired signals are strongly impaired by noise, reverberations and other interfering sources. In this context, the detection and localisation of speakers plays a key role since it is the pillar on which several tasks (e.g.: speech recognition and speaker tracking) rely. We address the problem of how to detect and localize people that are both seen and heard by a humanoid robot. We introduce a hybrid deterministic/probabilistic model. Indeed, the deterministic component allows us to map the visual information into the auditory space. By means of the probabilistic component, the visual features guide the grouping of the auditory features in order to form AV objects. The proposed model and the associated algorithm are implemented in real-time (17 FPS) using a stereoscopic camera pair and two microphones embedded into the head of the humanoid robot NAO. We performed experiments on (i) synthetic data, (ii) a publicly available data set and (iii) data acquired using the robot. The results we obtained validate the approach and encourage us to further investigate how vision can help robot hearing. 

Title: FutureMapping 2: Gaussian Belief Propagation for Spatial AI
Abstract:  We argue the case for Gaussian Belief Propagation (GBP) as a strong algorithmic framework for the distributed, generic and incremental probabilistic estimation we need in Spatial AI as we aim at high performance smart robots and devices which operate within the constraints of real products. Processor hardware is changing rapidly, and GBP has the right character to take advantage of highly distributed processing and storage while estimating global quantities, as well as great flexibility. We present a detailed tutorial on GBP, relating to the standard factor graph formulation used in robotics and computer vision, and give several simulation examples with code which demonstrate its properties. 

Title: Human-robot co-manipulation of extended objects: Data-driven models and control from analysis of human-human dyads
Abstract:  Human teams are able to easily perform collaborative manipulation tasks. However, for a robot and human to simultaneously manipulate an extended object is a difficult task using existing methods from the literature. Our approach in this paper is to use data from human-human dyad experiments to determine motion intent which we use for a physical human-robot co-manipulation task. We first present and analyze data from human-human dyads performing co-manipulation tasks. We show that our human-human dyad data has interesting trends including that interaction forces are non-negligible compared to the force required to accelerate an object and that the beginning of a lateral movement is characterized by distinct torque triggers from the leader of the dyad. We also examine different metrics to quantify performance of different dyads. We also develop a deep neural network based on motion data from human-human trials to predict human intent based on past motion. We then show how force and motion data can be used as a basis for robot control in a human-robot dyad. Finally, we compare the performance of two controllers for human-robot co-manipulation to human-human dyad performance. 

Title: Limbo: A Fast and Flexible Library for Bayesian Optimization
Abstract:  Limbo is an open-source C++11 library for Bayesian optimization which is designed to be both highly flexible and very fast. It can be used to optimize functions for which the gradient is unknown, evaluations are expensive, and runtime cost matters (e.g., on embedded systems or robots). Benchmarks on standard functions show that Limbo is about 2 times faster than BayesOpt (another C++ library) for a similar accuracy. 

Title: Contrasting Exploration in Parameter and Action Space: A Zeroth-Order Optimization Perspective
Abstract:  Black-box optimizers that explore in parameter space have often been shown to outperform more sophisticated action space exploration methods developed specifically for the reinforcement learning problem. We examine these black-box methods closely to identify situations in which they are worse than action space exploration methods and those in which they are superior. Through simple theoretical analyses, we prove that complexity of exploration in parameter space depends on the dimensionality of parameter space, while complexity of exploration in action space depends on both the dimensionality of action space and horizon length. This is also demonstrated empirically by comparing simple exploration methods on several model problems, including Contextual Bandit, Linear Regression and Reinforcement Learning in continuous control. 

Title: Learning Stabilizing Control Policies for a Tensegrity Hopper with Augmented Random Search
Abstract:  In this paper, we consider tensegrity hopper - a novel tensegrity-based robot, capable of moving by hopping. The paper focuses on the design of the stabilizing control policies, which are obtained with Augmented Random Search method. In particular, we search for control policies which allow the hopper to maintain vertical stability after performing a single jump. It is demonstrated, that the hopper can maintain a vertical configuration, subject to the different initial conditions and with changing control frequency rates. In particular, lowering control frequency from 1000Hz in training to 500Hz in execution did not affect the success rate of the balancing task. 

Title: Neural Manipulation Planning on Constraint Manifolds
Abstract:  The presence of task constraints imposes a significant challenge to motion planning. Despite all recent advancements, existing algorithms are still computationally expensive for most planning problems. In this paper, we present Constrained Motion Planning Networks (CoMPNet), the first neural planner for multimodal kinematic constraints. Our approach comprises the following components: i) constraint and environment perception encoders; ii) neural robot configuration generator that outputs configurations on/near the constraint manifold(s), and iii) a bidirectional planning algorithm that takes the generated configurations to create a feasible robot motion trajectory. We show that CoMPNet solves practical motion planning tasks involving both unconstrained and constrained problems. Furthermore, it generalizes to new unseen locations of the objects, i.e., not seen during training, in the given environments with high success rates. When compared to the state-of-the-art constrained motion planning algorithms, CoMPNet outperforms by order of magnitude improvement in computational speed with a significantly lower variance. 

Title: Self-Supervised Policy Adaptation during Deployment
Abstract:  In most real world scenarios, a policy trained by reinforcement learning in one environment needs to be deployed in another, potentially quite different environment. However, generalization across different environments is known to be hard. A natural solution would be to keep training after deployment in the new environment, but this cannot be done if the new environment offers no reward signal. Our work explores the use of self-supervision to allow the policy to continue training after deployment without using any rewards. While previous methods explicitly anticipate changes in the new environment, we assume no prior knowledge of those changes yet still obtain significant improvements. Empirical evaluations are performed on diverse environments from DeepMind Control suite and ViZDoom. Our method improves generalization in 25 out of 30 environments across various tasks, and outperforms domain randomization on a majority of environments. 

Title: Federated Imitation Learning: A Privacy Considered Imitation Learning Framework for Cloud Robotic Systems with Heterogeneous Sensor Data
Abstract:  Humans are capable of learning a new behavior by observing others perform the skill. Robots can also implement this by imitation learning. Furthermore, if with external guidance, humans will master the new behavior more efficiently. So how can robots implement this? To address the issue, we present Federated Imitation Learning (FIL) in the paper. Firstly, a knowledge fusion algorithm deployed on the cloud for fusing knowledge from local robots is presented. Then, effective transfer learning methods in FIL are introduced. With FIL, a robot is capable of utilizing knowledge from other robots to increase its imitation learning. FIL considers information privacy and data heterogeneity when robots share knowledge. It is suitable to be deployed in cloud robotic systems. Finally, we conduct experiments of a simplified self-driving task for robots (cars). The experimental results demonstrate that FIL is capable of increasing imitation learning of local robots in cloud robotic systems. 

Title: Beyond the Self: Using Grounded Affordances to Interpret and Describe Others' Actions
Abstract:  We propose a developmental approach that allows a robot to interpret and describe the actions of human agents by reusing previous experience. The robot first learns the association between words and object affordances by manipulating the objects in its environment. It then uses this information to learn a mapping between its own actions and those performed by a human in a shared environment. It finally fuses the information from these two models to interpret and describe human actions in light of its own experience. In our experiments, we show that the model can be used flexibly to do inference on different aspects of the scene. We can predict the effects of an action on the basis of object properties. We can revise the belief that a certain action occurred, given the observed effects of the human action. In an early action recognition fashion, we can anticipate the effects when the action has only been partially observed. By estimating the probability of words given the evidence and feeding them into a pre-defined grammar, we can generate relevant descriptions of the scene. We believe that this is a step towards providing robots with the fundamental skills to engage in social collaboration with humans. 

Title: Learning Robot Activities from First-Person Human Videos Using Convolutional Future Regression
Abstract:  We design a new approach that allows robot learning of new activities from unlabeled human example videos. Given videos of humans executing the same activity from a human's viewpoint (i.e., first-person videos), our objective is to make the robot learn the temporal structure of the activity as its future regression network, and learn to transfer such model for its own motor execution. We present a new deep learning model: We extend the state-of-the-art convolutional object detection network for the representation/estimation of human hands in training videos, and newly introduce the concept of using a fully convolutional network to regress (i.e., predict) the intermediate scene representation corresponding to the future frame (e.g., 1-2 seconds later). Combining these allows direct prediction of future locations of human hands and objects, which enables the robot to infer the motor control plan using our manipulation network. We experimentally confirm that our approach makes learning of robot activities from unlabeled human interaction videos possible, and demonstrate that our robot is able to execute the learned collaborative activities in real-time directly based on its camera input. 

Title: Sample-Efficient Learning of Nonprehensile Manipulation Policies via Physics-Based Informed State Distributions
Abstract:  This paper proposes a sample-efficient yet simple approach to learning closed-loop policies for nonprehensile manipulation. Although reinforcement learning (RL) can learn closed-loop policies without requiring access to underlying physics models, it suffers from poor sample complexity on challenging tasks. To overcome this problem, we leverage rearrangement planning to provide an informative physics-based prior on the environment's optimal state-visitation distribution. Specifically, we present a new technique, Learning with Planned Episodic Resets (LeaPER), that resets the environment's state to one informed by the prior during the learning phase. We experimentally show that LeaPER significantly outperforms traditional RL approaches by a factor of up to 5X on simulated rearrangement. Further, we relax dynamics from quasi-static to welded contacts to illustrate that LeaPER is robust to the use of simpler physics models. Finally, LeaPER's closed-loop policies significantly improve task success rates relative to both open-loop controls with a planned path or simple feedback controllers that track open-loop trajectories. We demonstrate the performance and behavior of LeaPER on a physical 7-DOF manipulator in https://youtu.be/feS-zFq6J1c. 

Title: A Survey on Reproducibility by Evaluating Deep Reinforcement Learning Algorithms on Real-World Robots
Abstract:  As reinforcement learning (RL) achieves more success in solving complex tasks, more care is needed to ensure that RL research is reproducible and that algorithms herein can be compared easily and fairly with minimal bias. RL results are, however, notoriously hard to reproduce due to the algorithms' intrinsic variance, the environments' stochasticity, and numerous (potentially unreported) hyper-parameters. In this work we investigate the many issues leading to irreproducible research and how to manage those. We further show how to utilise a rigorous and standardised evaluation approach for easing the process of documentation, evaluation and fair comparison of different algorithms, where we emphasise the importance of choosing the right measurement metrics and conducting proper statistics on the results, for unbiased reporting of the results. 

Title: Learning compositional models of robot skills for task and motion planning
Abstract:  The objective of this work is to augment the basic abilities of a robot by learning to use new sensorimotor primitives to solve complex long-horizon manipulation problems. This requires flexible generative planning that can combine primitive abilities in novel combinations and thus generalize across a wide variety of problems. In order to plan with primitive actions, we must have models of the preconditions and effects of those actions: under what circumstances will executing this primitive successfully achieve some particular effect in the world? We use, and develop novel improvements on, state-of-the-art methods for active learning and sampling. We use Gaussian process methods for learning the conditions of operator effectiveness from small numbers of expensive training examples. We develop adaptive sampling methods for generating a comprehensive and diverse sequence of continuous parameter values (such as pouring waypoints for a cup) configurations and during planning for solving a new task, so that a complete robot plan can be found as efficiently as possible. We demonstrate our approach in an integrated system, combining traditional robotics primitives with our newly learned models using an efficient robot task and motion planner. We evaluate our approach both in simulation and in the real world through measuring the quality of the selected pours and scoops. Finally, we apply our integrated system to a variety of long-horizon simulated and real-world manipulation problems. 

Title: Human-centered collaborative robots with deep reinforcement learning
Abstract:  We present a reinforcement learning based framework for human-centered collaborative systems. The framework is proactive and balances the benefits of timely actions with the risk of taking improper actions by minimizing the total time spent to complete the task. The framework is learned end-to-end in an unsupervised fashion addressing the perception uncertainties and decision making in an integrated manner. The framework is shown to provide more fluent coordination between human and robot partners on an example task of packaging compared to alternatives for which perception and decision-making systems are learned independently, using supervised learning. The foremost benefit of the proposed approach is that it allows for fast adaptation to new human partners and tasks since tedious annotation of motion data is avoided and the learning is performed on-line. 

Title: EnforceNet: Monocular Camera Localization in Large Scale Indoor Sparse LiDAR Point Cloud
Abstract:  Pose estimation is a fundamental building block for robotic applications such as autonomous vehicles, UAV, and large scale augmented reality. It is also a prohibitive factor for those applications to be in mass production, since the state-of-the-art, centimeter-level pose estimation often requires long mapping procedures and expensive localization sensors, e.g. LiDAR and high precision GPS/IMU, etc. To overcome the cost barrier, we propose a neural network based solution to localize a consumer degree RGB camera within a prior sparse LiDAR map with comparable centimeter-level precision. We achieved it by introducing a novel network module, which we call resistor module, to enforce the network generalize better, predicts more accurately, and converge faster. Such results are benchmarked by several datasets we collected in the large scale indoor parking garage scenes. We plan to open both the data and the code for the community to join the effort to advance this field. 

Title: Learning human behaviors from motion capture by adversarial imitation
Abstract:  Rapid progress in deep reinforcement learning has made it increasingly feasible to train controllers for high-dimensional humanoid bodies. However, methods that use pure reinforcement learning with simple reward functions tend to produce non-humanlike and overly stereotyped movement behaviors. In this work, we extend generative adversarial imitation learning to enable training of generic neural network policies to produce humanlike movement patterns from limited demonstrations consisting only of partially observed state features, without access to actions, even when the demonstrations come from a body with different and unknown physical parameters. We leverage this approach to build sub-skill policies from motion capture data and show that they can be reused to solve tasks when controlled by a higher level controller. 

Title: Assembly of randomly placed parts realized by using only one robot arm with a general parallel-jaw gripper
Abstract:  In industry assembly lines, parts feeding machines are widely employed as the prologue of the whole procedure. They play the role of sorting the parts randomly placed in bins to the state with specified pose. With the help of the parts feeding machines, the subsequent assembly processes by robot arm can always start from the same condition. Thus it is expected that function of parting feeding machine and the robotic assembly can be integrated with one robot arm. This scheme can provide great flexibility and can also contribute to reduce the cost. The difficulties involved in this scheme lie in the fact that in the part feeding phase, the pose of the part after grasping may be not proper for the subsequent assembly. Sometimes it can not even guarantee a stable grasp. In this paper, we proposed a method to integrate parts feeding and assembly within one robot arm. This proposal utilizes a specially designed gripper tip mounted on the jaws of a two-fingered gripper. With the modified gripper, in-hand manipulation of the grasped object is realized, which can ensure the control of the orientation and offset position of the grasped object. The proposal in this paper is verified by a simulated assembly in which a robot arm completed the assembly process including parts picking from bin and a subsequent peg-in-hole assembly. 

Title: ALLSTEPS: Curriculum-driven Learning of Stepping Stone Skills
Abstract:  Humans are highly adept at walking in environments with foot placement constraints, including stepping-stone scenarios where the footstep locations are fully constrained. Finding good solutions to stepping-stone locomotion is a longstanding and fundamental challenge for animation and robotics. We present fully learned solutions to this difficult problem using reinforcement learning. We demonstrate the importance of a curriculum for efficient learning and evaluate four possible curriculum choices compared to a non-curriculum baseline. Results are presented for a simulated human character, a realistic bipedal robot simulation and a monster character, in each case producing robust, plausible motions for challenging stepping stone sequences and terrains. 

Title: Learning Robot Skills with Temporal Variational Inference
Abstract:  In this paper, we address the discovery of robotic options from demonstrations in an unsupervised manner. Specifically, we present a framework to jointly learn low-level control policies and higher-level policies of how to use them from demonstrations of a robot performing various tasks. By representing options as continuous latent variables, we frame the problem of learning these options as latent variable inference. We then present a temporal formulation of variational inference based on a temporal factorization of trajectory likelihoods,that allows us to infer options in an unsupervised manner. We demonstrate the ability of our framework to learn such options across three robotic demonstration datasets. 

Title: COLREG-Compliant Collision Avoidance for Unmanned Surface Vehicle using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Path Following and Collision Avoidance, be it for unmanned surface vessels or other autonomous vehicles, are two fundamental guidance problems in robotics. For many decades, they have been subject to academic study, leading to a vast number of proposed approaches. However, they have mostly been treated as separate problems, and have typically relied on non-linear first-principles models with parameters that can only be determined experimentally. The rise of Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) in recent years suggests an alternative approach: end-to-end learning of the optimal guidance policy from scratch by means of a trial-and-error based approach. In this article, we explore the potential of Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO), a DRL algorithm with demonstrated state-of-the-art performance on Continuous Control tasks, when applied to the dual-objective problem of controlling an underactuated Autonomous Surface Vehicle in a COLREGs compliant manner such that it follows an a priori known desired path while avoiding collisions with other vessels along the way. Based on high-fidelity elevation and AIS tracking data from the Trondheim Fjord, an inlet of the Norwegian sea, we evaluate the trained agent's performance in challenging, dynamic real-world scenarios where the ultimate success of the agent rests upon its ability to navigate non-uniform marine terrain while handling challenging, but realistic vessel encounters. 

Title: Self-Supervised Sim-to-Real Adaptation for Visual Robotic Manipulation
Abstract:  Collecting and automatically obtaining reward signals from real robotic visual data for the purposes of training reinforcement learning algorithms can be quite challenging and time-consuming. Methods for utilizing unlabeled data can have a huge potential to further accelerate robotic learning. We consider here the problem of performing manipulation tasks from pixels. In such tasks, choosing an appropriate state representation is crucial for planning and control. This is even more relevant with real images where noise, occlusions and resolution affect the accuracy and reliability of state estimation. In this work, we learn a latent state representation implicitly with deep reinforcement learning in simulation, and then adapt it to the real domain using unlabeled real robot data. We propose to do so by optimizing sequence-based self supervised objectives. These exploit the temporal nature of robot experience, and can be common in both the simulated and real domains, without assuming any alignment of underlying states in simulated and unlabeled real images. We propose Contrastive Forward Dynamics loss, which combines dynamics model learning with time-contrastive techniques. The learned state representation that results from our methods can be used to robustly solve a manipulation task in simulation and to successfully transfer the learned skill on a real system. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approaches by training a vision-based reinforcement learning agent for cube stacking. Agents trained with our method, using only 5 hours of unlabeled real robot data for adaptation, shows a clear improvement over domain randomization, and standard visual domain adaptation techniques for sim-to-real transfer. 

Title: The Curious Robot: Learning Visual Representations via Physical Interactions
Abstract:  What is the right supervisory signal to train visual representations? Current approaches in computer vision use category labels from datasets such as ImageNet to train ConvNets. However, in case of biological agents, visual representation learning does not require millions of semantic labels. We argue that biological agents use physical interactions with the world to learn visual representations unlike current vision systems which just use passive observations (images and videos downloaded from web). For example, babies push objects, poke them, put them in their mouth and throw them to learn representations. Towards this goal, we build one of the first systems on a Baxter platform that pushes, pokes, grasps and observes objects in a tabletop environment. It uses four different types of physical interactions to collect more than 130K datapoints, with each datapoint providing supervision to a shared ConvNet architecture allowing us to learn visual representations. We show the quality of learned representations by observing neuron activations and performing nearest neighbor retrieval on this learned representation. Quantitatively, we evaluate our learned ConvNet on image classification tasks and show improvements compared to learning without external data. Finally, on the task of instance retrieval, our network outperforms the ImageNet network on recall@1 by 3% 

Title: Safe, Efficient, and Comfortable Velocity Control based on Reinforcement Learning for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  A model used for velocity control during car following was proposed based on deep reinforcement learning (RL). To fulfil the multi-objectives of car following, a reward function reflecting driving safety, efficiency, and comfort was constructed. With the reward function, the RL agent learns to control vehicle speed in a fashion that maximizes cumulative rewards, through trials and errors in the simulation environment. A total of 1,341 car-following events extracted from the Next Generation Simulation (NGSIM) dataset were used to train the model. Car-following behavior produced by the model were compared with that observed in the empirical NGSIM data, to demonstrate the model's ability to follow a lead vehicle safely, efficiently, and comfortably. Results show that the model demonstrates the capability of safe, efficient, and comfortable velocity control in that it 1) has small percentages (8\%) of dangerous minimum time to collision values (\textless\ 5s) than human drivers in the NGSIM data (35\%); 2) can maintain efficient and safe headways in the range of 1s to 2s; and 3) can follow the lead vehicle comfortably with smooth acceleration. The results indicate that reinforcement learning methods could contribute to the development of autonomous driving systems. 

Title: Towards real-time unsupervised monocular depth estimation on CPU
Abstract:  Unsupervised depth estimation from a single image is a very attractive technique with several implications in robotic, autonomous navigation, augmented reality and so on. This topic represents a very challenging task and the advent of deep learning enabled to tackle this problem with excellent results. However, these architectures are extremely deep and complex. Thus, real-time performance can be achieved only by leveraging power-hungry GPUs that do not allow to infer depth maps in application fields characterized by low-power constraints. To tackle this issue, in this paper we propose a novel architecture capable to quickly infer an accurate depth map on a CPU, even of an embedded system, using a pyramid of features extracted from a single input image. Similarly to state-of-the-art, we train our network in an unsupervised manner casting depth estimation as an image reconstruction problem. Extensive experimental results on the KITTI dataset show that compared to the top performing approach our network has similar accuracy but a much lower complexity (about 6% of parameters) enabling to infer a depth map for a KITTI image in about 1.7 s on the Raspberry Pi 3 and at more than 8 Hz on a standard CPU. Moreover, by trading accuracy for efficiency, our network allows to infer maps at about 2 Hz and 40 Hz respectively, still being more accurate than most state-of-the-art slower methods. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first method enabling such performance on CPUs paving the way for effective deployment of unsupervised monocular depth estimation even on embedded systems. 

Title: Leveraging Experience in Lazy Search
Abstract:  Lazy graph search algorithms are efficient at solving motion planning problems where edge evaluation is the computational bottleneck. These algorithms work by lazily computing the shortest potentially feasible path, evaluating edges along that path, and repeating until a feasible path is found. The order in which edges are selected is critical to minimizing the total number of edge evaluations: a good edge selector chooses edges that are not only likely to be invalid, but also eliminates future paths from consideration. We wish to learn such a selector by leveraging prior experience. We formulate this problem as a Markov Decision Process (MDP) on the state of the search problem. While solving this large MDP is generally intractable, we show that we can compute oracular selectors that can solve the MDP during training. With access to such oracles, we use imitation learning to find effective policies. If new search problems are sufficiently similar to problems solved during training, the learned policy will choose a good edge evaluation ordering and solve the motion planning problem quickly. We evaluate our algorithms on a wide range of 2D and 7D problems and show that the learned selector outperforms baseline commonly used heuristics. 

Title: Learning Stabilizable Dynamical Systems via Control Contraction Metrics
Abstract:  We propose a novel framework for learning stabilizable nonlinear dynamical systems for continuous control tasks in robotics. The key idea is to develop a new control-theoretic regularizer for dynamics fitting rooted in the notion of stabilizability, which guarantees that the learned system can be accompanied by a robust controller capable of stabilizing any open-loop trajectory that the system may generate. By leveraging tools from contraction theory, statistical learning, and convex optimization, we provide a general and tractable semi-supervised algorithm to learn stabilizable dynamics, which can be applied to complex underactuated systems. We validated the proposed algorithm on a simulated planar quadrotor system and observed notably improved trajectory generation and tracking performance with the control-theoretic regularized model over models learned using traditional regression techniques, especially when using a small number of demonstration examples. The results presented illustrate the need to infuse standard model-based reinforcement learning algorithms with concepts drawn from nonlinear control theory for improved reliability. 

Title: Multi-modal Active Learning From Human Data: A Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach
Abstract:  Human behavior expression and experience are inherently multi-modal, and characterized by vast individual and contextual heterogeneity. To achieve meaningful human-computer and human-robot interactions, multi-modal models of the users states (e.g., engagement) are therefore needed. Most of the existing works that try to build classifiers for the users states assume that the data to train the models are fully labeled. Nevertheless, data labeling is costly and tedious, and also prone to subjective interpretations by the human coders. This is even more pronounced when the data are multi-modal (e.g., some users are more expressive with their facial expressions, some with their voice). Thus, building models that can accurately estimate the users states during an interaction is challenging. To tackle this, we propose a novel multi-modal active learning (AL) approach that uses the notion of deep reinforcement learning (RL) to find an optimal policy for active selection of the users data, needed to train the target (modality-specific) models. We investigate different strategies for multi-modal data fusion, and show that the proposed model-level fusion coupled with RL outperforms the feature-level and modality-specific models, and the naive AL strategies such as random sampling, and the standard heuristics such as uncertainty sampling. We show the benefits of this approach on the task of engagement estimation from real-world child-robot interactions during an autism therapy. Importantly, we show that the proposed multi-modal AL approach can be used to efficiently personalize the engagement classifiers to the target user using a small amount of actively selected users data. 

Title: AAAI-2019 Workshop on Games and Simulations for Artificial Intelligence
Abstract:  This volume represents the accepted submissions from the AAAI-2019 Workshop on Games and Simulations for Artificial Intelligence held on January 29, 2019 in Honolulu, Hawaii, USA. https://www.gamesim.ai 

Title: Large-Scale Study of Curiosity-Driven Learning
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning algorithms rely on carefully engineering environment rewards that are extrinsic to the agent. However, annotating each environment with hand-designed, dense rewards is not scalable, motivating the need for developing reward functions that are intrinsic to the agent. Curiosity is a type of intrinsic reward function which uses prediction error as reward signal. In this paper: (a) We perform the first large-scale study of purely curiosity-driven learning, i.e. without any extrinsic rewards, across 54 standard benchmark environments, including the Atari game suite. Our results show surprisingly good performance, and a high degree of alignment between the intrinsic curiosity objective and the hand-designed extrinsic rewards of many game environments. (b) We investigate the effect of using different feature spaces for computing prediction error and show that random features are sufficient for many popular RL game benchmarks, but learned features appear to generalize better (e.g. to novel game levels in Super Mario Bros.). (c) We demonstrate limitations of the prediction-based rewards in stochastic setups. Game-play videos and code are at https://pathak22.github.io/large-scale-curiosity/ 

Title: Modeling Varying Camera-IMU Time Offset in Optimization-Based Visual-Inertial Odometry
Abstract:  Combining cameras and inertial measurement units (IMUs) has been proven effective in motion tracking, as these two sensing modalities offer complementary characteristics that are suitable for fusion. While most works focus on global-shutter cameras and synchronized sensor measurements, consumer-grade devices are mostly equipped with rolling-shutter cameras and suffer from imperfect sensor synchronization. In this work, we propose a nonlinear optimization-based monocular visual inertial odometry (VIO) with varying camera-IMU time offset modeled as an unknown variable. Our approach is able to handle the rolling-shutter effects and imperfect sensor synchronization in a unified way. Additionally, we introduce an efficient algorithm based on dynamic programming and red-black tree to speed up IMU integration over variable-length time intervals during the optimization. An uncertainty-aware initialization is also presented to launch the VIO robustly. Comparisons with state-of-the-art methods on the Euroc dataset and mobile phone data are shown to validate the effectiveness of our approach. 

Title: Deep Multi-Task Learning for Anomalous Driving Detection Using CAN Bus Scalar Sensor Data
Abstract:  Corner cases are the main bottlenecks when applying Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems to safety-critical applications. An AI system should be intelligent enough to detect such situations so that system developers can prepare for subsequent planning. In this paper, we propose semi-supervised anomaly detection considering the imbalance of normal situations. In particular, driving data consists of multiple positive/normal situations (e.g., right turn, going straight), some of which (e.g., U-turn) could be as rare as anomalous situations. Existing machine learning based anomaly detection approaches do not fare sufficiently well when applied to such imbalanced data. In this paper, we present a novel multi-task learning based approach that leverages domain-knowledge (maneuver labels) for anomaly detection in driving data. We evaluate the proposed approach both quantitatively and qualitatively on 150 hours of real-world driving data and show improved performance over baseline approaches. 

Title: DeepLiDARFlow: A Deep Learning Architecture For Scene Flow Estimation Using Monocular Camera and Sparse LiDAR
Abstract:  Scene flow is the dense 3D reconstruction of motion and geometry of a scene. Most state-of-the-art methods use a pair of stereo images as input for full scene reconstruction. These methods depend a lot on the quality of the RGB images and perform poorly in regions with reflective objects, shadows, ill-conditioned light environment and so on. LiDAR measurements are much less sensitive to the aforementioned conditions but LiDAR features are in general unsuitable for matching tasks due to their sparse nature. Hence, using both LiDAR and RGB can potentially overcome the individual disadvantages of each sensor by mutual improvement and yield robust features which can improve the matching process. In this paper, we present DeepLiDARFlow, a novel deep learning architecture which fuses high level RGB and LiDAR features at multiple scales in a monocular setup to predict dense scene flow. Its performance is much better in the critical regions where image-only and LiDAR-only methods are inaccurate. We verify our DeepLiDARFlow using the established data sets KITTI and FlyingThings3D and we show strong robustness compared to several state-of-the-art methods which used other input modalities. The code of our paper is available at https://github.com/dfki-av/DeepLiDARFlow. 

Title: Neuromorphic Eye-in-Hand Visual Servoing
Abstract:  Robotic vision plays a major role in factory automation to service robot applications. However, the traditional use of frame-based camera sets a limitation on continuous visual feedback due to their low sampling rate and redundant data in real-time image processing, especially in the case of high-speed tasks. Event cameras give human-like vision capabilities such as observing the dynamic changes asynchronously at a high temporal resolution ($1\mu s$) with low latency and wide dynamic range. In this paper, we present a visual servoing method using an event camera and a switching control strategy to explore, reach and grasp to achieve a manipulation task. We devise three surface layers of active events to directly process stream of events from relative motion. A purely event based approach is adopted to extract corner features, localize them robustly using heat maps and generate virtual features for tracking and alignment. Based on the visual feedback, the motion of the robot is controlled to make the temporal upcoming event features converge to the desired event in spatio-temporal space. The controller switches its strategy based on the sequence of operation to establish a stable grasp. The event based visual servoing (EVBS) method is validated experimentally using a commercial robot manipulator in an eye-in-hand configuration. Experiments prove the effectiveness of the EBVS method to track and grasp objects of different shapes without the need for re-tuning. 

Title: Pl\"ucker Correction Problem: Analysis and Improvements in Efficiency
Abstract:  A given six dimensional vector represents a 3D straight line in Plucker coordinates if its coordinates satisfy the Klein quadric constraint. In many problems aiming to find the Plucker coordinates of lines, noise in the data and other type of errors contribute for obtaining 6D vectors that do not correspond to lines, because of that constraint. A common procedure to overcome this drawback is to find the Plucker coordinates of the lines that are closest to those vectors. This is known as the Plucker correction problem. In this article we propose a simple, closed-form, and global solution for this problem. When compared with the state-of-the-art method, one can conclude that our algorithm is easier and requires much less operations than previous techniques (it does not require Singular Value Decomposition techniques). 

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning for Robotic Manipulation with Asynchronous Off-Policy Updates
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning holds the promise of enabling autonomous robots to learn large repertoires of behavioral skills with minimal human intervention. However, robotic applications of reinforcement learning often compromise the autonomy of the learning process in favor of achieving training times that are practical for real physical systems. This typically involves introducing hand-engineered policy representations and human-supplied demonstrations. Deep reinforcement learning alleviates this limitation by training general-purpose neural network policies, but applications of direct deep reinforcement learning algorithms have so far been restricted to simulated settings and relatively simple tasks, due to their apparent high sample complexity. In this paper, we demonstrate that a recent deep reinforcement learning algorithm based on off-policy training of deep Q-functions can scale to complex 3D manipulation tasks and can learn deep neural network policies efficiently enough to train on real physical robots. We demonstrate that the training times can be further reduced by parallelizing the algorithm across multiple robots which pool their policy updates asynchronously. Our experimental evaluation shows that our method can learn a variety of 3D manipulation skills in simulation and a complex door opening skill on real robots without any prior demonstrations or manually designed representations. 

Title: Generic Camera Attribute Control using Bayesian Optimization
Abstract:  Cameras are the most widely exploited sensor in both robotics and computer vision communities. Despite their popularity, two dominant attributes (i.e., gain and exposure time) have been determined empirically and images are captured in very passive manner. In this paper, we present an active and generic camera attribute control scheme using Bayesian optimization. We extend from our previous work [1] in two aspects. First, we propose a method that jointly controls camera gain and exposure time. Secondly, to speed up the Bayesian optimization process, we introduce image synthesis using the camera response function (CRF). These synthesized images allowed us to diminish the image acquisition time during the Bayesian optimization phase, substantially improving overall control performance. The proposed method is validated both in an indoor and an outdoor environment where light condition rapidly changes. Supplementary material is available at https://youtu.be/XTYR_Mih3OU . 

Title: Deep Semantic Classification for 3D LiDAR Data
Abstract:  Robots are expected to operate autonomously in dynamic environments. Understanding the underlying dynamic characteristics of objects is a key enabler for achieving this goal. In this paper, we propose a method for pointwise semantic classification of 3D LiDAR data into three classes: non-movable, movable and dynamic. We concentrate on understanding these specific semantics because they characterize important information required for an autonomous system. Non-movable points in the scene belong to unchanging segments of the environment, whereas the remaining classes corresponds to the changing parts of the scene. The difference between the movable and dynamic class is their motion state. The dynamic points can be perceived as moving, whereas movable objects can move, but are perceived as static. To learn the distinction between movable and non-movable points in the environment, we introduce an approach based on deep neural network and for detecting the dynamic points, we estimate pointwise motion. We propose a Bayes filter framework for combining the learned semantic cues with the motion cues to infer the required semantic classification. In extensive experiments, we compare our approach with other methods on a standard benchmark dataset and report competitive results in comparison to the existing state-of-the-art. Furthermore, we show an improvement in the classification of points by combining the semantic cues retrieved from the neural network with the motion cues. 

Title: Self Driving RC Car using Behavioral Cloning
Abstract:  Self Driving Car technology is a vehicle that guides itself without human conduction. The first truly autonomous cars appeared in the 1980s with projects funded by DARPA( Defense Advance Research Project Agency ). Since then a lot has changed with the improvements in the fields of Computer Vision and Machine Learning. We have used the concept of behavioral cloning to convert a normal RC model car into an autonomous car using Deep Learning technology 

Title: Gaze Training by Modulated Dropout Improves Imitation Learning
Abstract:  Imitation learning by behavioral cloning is a prevalent method that has achieved some success in vision-based autonomous driving. The basic idea behind behavioral cloning is to have the neural network learn from observing a human expert's behavior. Typically, a convolutional neural network learns to predict the steering commands from raw driver-view images by mimicking the behaviors of human drivers. However, there are other cues, such as gaze behavior, available from human drivers that have yet to be exploited. Previous researches have shown that novice human learners can benefit from observing experts' gaze patterns. We present here that deep neural networks can also profit from this. We propose a method, gaze-modulated dropout, for integrating this gaze information into a deep driving network implicitly rather than as an additional input. Our experimental results demonstrate that gaze-modulated dropout enhances the generalization capability of the network to unseen scenes. Prediction error in steering commands is reduced by 23.5% compared to uniform dropout. Running closed loop in the simulator, the gaze-modulated dropout net increased the average distance travelled between infractions by 58.5%. Consistent with these results, the gaze-modulated dropout net shows lower model uncertainty. 

Title: An Efficient Reachability-Based Framework for Provably Safe Autonomous Navigation in Unknown Environments
Abstract:  Real-world autonomous vehicles often operate in a priori unknown environments. Since most of these systems are safety-critical, it is important to ensure they operate safely in the face of environment uncertainty, such as unseen obstacles. Current safety analysis tools enable autonomous systems to reason about safety given full information about the state of the environment a priori. However, these tools do not scale well to scenarios where the environment is being sensed in real time, such as during navigation tasks. In this work, we propose a novel, real-time safety analysis method based on Hamilton-Jacobi reachability that provides strong safety guarantees despite environment uncertainty. Our safety method is planner-agnostic and provides guarantees for a variety of mapping sensors. We demonstrate our approach in simulation and in hardware to provide safety guarantees around a state-of-the-art vision-based, learning-based planner. 

Title: Estimation of Absolute Scale in Monocular SLAM Using Synthetic Data
Abstract:  This paper addresses the problem of scale estimation in monocular SLAM by estimating absolute distances between camera centers of consecutive image frames. These estimates would improve the overall performance of classical (not deep) SLAM systems and allow metric feature locations to be recovered from a single monocular camera. We propose several network architectures that lead to an improvement of scale estimation accuracy over the state of the art. In addition, we exploit a possibility to train the neural network only with synthetic data derived from a computer graphics simulator. Our key insight is that, using only synthetic training inputs, we can achieve similar scale estimation accuracy as that obtained from real data. This fact indicates that fully annotated simulated data is a viable alternative to existing deep-learning-based SLAM systems trained on real (unlabeled) data. Our experiments with unsupervised domain adaptation also show that the difference in visual appearance between simulated and real data does not affect scale estimation results. Our method operates with low-resolution images (0.03MP), which makes it practical for real-time SLAM applications with a monocular camera. 

Title: EvolveGraph: Heterogeneous Multi-Agent Multi-Modal Trajectory Prediction with Evolving Interaction Graphs
Abstract:  Multi-agent interacting systems are prevalent in the world, from pure physical systems to complicated social dynamic systems. In many applications, effective understanding of the environment and accurate trajectory prediction of interactive agents play a significant role in downstream tasks, such as decision and planning. In this paper, we propose a generic trajectory forecasting framework (named EvolveGraph) with explicit interaction modeling via a latent interaction graph among multiple heterogeneous, interactive agents. Considering the uncertainty and the possibility of different future behaviors, the model is designed to provide multi-modal prediction hypotheses. Since the interactions may be time-varying even with abrupt changes, and different modalities may have different interactions, we address the necessity and effectiveness of adaptively evolving the interaction graph and provide an effective solution. We also introduce a double-stage training pipeline which not only improves training efficiency and accelerates convergence, but also enhances model performance in terms of prediction error. The proposed framework is evaluated on multiple public benchmark datasets in various areas for trajectory prediction, where the agents cover on-road vehicles, pedestrians, cyclists and sports players. The experimental results illustrate that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance in terms of prediction accuracy. 

Title: DeepMoTIon: Learning to Navigate Like Humans
Abstract:  We present a novel human-aware navigation approach, where the robot learns to mimic humans to navigate safely in crowds. The presented model, referred to as DeepMoTIon, is trained with pedestrian surveillance data to predict human velocity in the environment. The robot processes LiDAR scans via the trained network to navigate to the target location. We conduct extensive experiments to assess the components of our network and prove their necessity to imitate humans. Our experiments show that DeepMoTIion outperforms all the benchmarks in terms of human imitation, achieving a 24% reduction in time series-based path deviation over the next best approach. In addition, while many other approaches often failed to reach the target, our method reached the target in 100% of the test cases while complying with social norms and ensuring human safety. 

Title: Transferable Task Execution from Pixels through Deep Planning Domain Learning
Abstract:  While robots can learn models to solve many manipulation tasks from raw visual input, they cannot usually use these models to solve new problems. On the other hand, symbolic planning methods such as STRIPS have long been able to solve new problems given only a domain definition and a symbolic goal, but these approaches often struggle on the real world robotic tasks due to the challenges of grounding these symbols from sensor data in a partially-observable world. We propose Deep Planning Domain Learning (DPDL), an approach that combines the strengths of both methods to learn a hierarchical model. DPDL learns a high-level model which predicts values for a large set of logical predicates consisting of the current symbolic world state, and separately learns a low-level policy which translates symbolic operators into executable actions on the robot. This allows us to perform complex, multi-step tasks even when the robot has not been explicitly trained on them. We show our method on manipulation tasks in a photorealistic kitchen scenario. 

Title: An Efficient Schmidt-EKF for 3D Visual-Inertial SLAM
Abstract:  It holds great implications for practical applications to enable centimeter-accuracy positioning for mobile and wearable sensor systems. In this paper, we propose a novel, high-precision, efficient visual-inertial (VI)-SLAM algorithm, termed Schmidt-EKF VI-SLAM (SEVIS), which optimally fuses IMU measurements and monocular images in a tightly-coupled manner to provide 3D motion tracking with bounded error. In particular, we adapt the Schmidt Kalman filter formulation to selectively include informative features in the state vector while treating them as nuisance parameters (or Schmidt states) once they become matured. This change in modeling allows for significant computational savings by no longer needing to constantly update the Schmidt states (or their covariance), while still allowing the EKF to correctly account for their cross-correlations with the active states. As a result, we achieve linear computational complexity in terms of map size, instead of quadratic as in the standard SLAM systems. In order to fully exploit the map information to bound navigation drifts, we advocate efficient keyframe-aided 2D-to-2D feature matching to find reliable correspondences between current 2D visual measurements and 3D map features. The proposed SEVIS is extensively validated in both simulations and experiments. 

Title: Metric-Based Imitation Learning Between Two Dissimilar Anthropomorphic Robotic Arms
Abstract:  The development of autonomous robotic systems that can learn from human demonstrations to imitate a desired behavior - rather than being manually programmed - has huge technological potential. One major challenge in imitation learning is the correspondence problem: how to establish corresponding states and actions between expert and learner, when the embodiments of the agents are different (morphology, dynamics, degrees of freedom, etc.). Many existing approaches in imitation learning circumvent the correspondence problem, for example, kinesthetic teaching or teleoperation, which are performed on the robot. In this work we explicitly address the correspondence problem by introducing a distance measure between dissimilar embodiments. This measure is then used as a loss function for static pose imitation and as a feedback signal within a model-free deep reinforcement learning framework for dynamic movement imitation between two anthropomorphic robotic arms in simulation. We find that the measure is well suited for describing the similarity between embodiments and for learning imitation policies by distance minimization. 

Title: QT-Opt: Scalable Deep Reinforcement Learning for Vision-Based Robotic Manipulation
Abstract:  In this paper, we study the problem of learning vision-based dynamic manipulation skills using a scalable reinforcement learning approach. We study this problem in the context of grasping, a longstanding challenge in robotic manipulation. In contrast to static learning behaviors that choose a grasp point and then execute the desired grasp, our method enables closed-loop vision-based control, whereby the robot continuously updates its grasp strategy based on the most recent observations to optimize long-horizon grasp success. To that end, we introduce QT-Opt, a scalable self-supervised vision-based reinforcement learning framework that can leverage over 580k real-world grasp attempts to train a deep neural network Q-function with over 1.2M parameters to perform closed-loop, real-world grasping that generalizes to 96% grasp success on unseen objects. Aside from attaining a very high success rate, our method exhibits behaviors that are quite distinct from more standard grasping systems: using only RGB vision-based perception from an over-the-shoulder camera, our method automatically learns regrasping strategies, probes objects to find the most effective grasps, learns to reposition objects and perform other non-prehensile pre-grasp manipulations, and responds dynamically to disturbances and perturbations. 

Title: Objective Mismatch in Model-based Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Model-based reinforcement learning (MBRL) has been shown to be a powerful framework for data-efficiently learning control of continuous tasks. Recent work in MBRL has mostly focused on using more advanced function approximators and planning schemes, with little development of the general framework. In this paper, we identify a fundamental issue of the standard MBRL framework -- what we call the objective mismatch issue. Objective mismatch arises when one objective is optimized in the hope that a second, often uncorrelated, metric will also be optimized. In the context of MBRL, we characterize the objective mismatch between training the forward dynamics model w.r.t.~the likelihood of the one-step ahead prediction, and the overall goal of improving performance on a downstream control task. For example, this issue can emerge with the realization that dynamics models effective for a specific task do not necessarily need to be globally accurate, and vice versa globally accurate models might not be sufficiently accurate locally to obtain good control performance on a specific task. In our experiments, we study this objective mismatch issue and demonstrate that the likelihood of one-step ahead predictions is not always correlated with control performance. This observation highlights a critical limitation in the MBRL framework which will require further research to be fully understood and addressed. We propose an initial method to mitigate the mismatch issue by re-weighting dynamics model training. Building on it, we conclude with a discussion about other potential directions of research for addressing this issue. 

Title: End-to-End Vision-Based Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  This paper presented a deep reinforcement learning method named Double Deep Q-networks to design an end-to-end vision-based adaptive cruise control (ACC) system. A simulation environment of a highway scene was set up in Unity, which is a game engine that provided both physical models of vehicles and feature data for training and testing. Well-designed reward functions associated with the following distance and throttle/brake force were implemented in the reinforcement learning model for both internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles and electric vehicles (EV) to perform adaptive cruise control. The gap statistics and total energy consumption are evaluated for different vehicle types to explore the relationship between reward functions and powertrain characteristics. Compared with the traditional radar-based ACC systems or human-in-the-loop simulation, the proposed vision-based ACC system can generate either a better gap regulated trajectory or a smoother speed trajectory depending on the preset reward function. The proposed system can be well adaptive to different speed trajectories of the preceding vehicle and operated in real-time. 

Title: Arcades: A deep model for adaptive decision making in voice controlled smart-home
Abstract:  In a voice-controlled smart-home, a controller must respond not only to user's requests but also according to the interaction context. This paper describes Arcades, a system which uses deep reinforcement learning to extract context from a graphical representation of home automation system and to update continuously its behavior to the user's one. This system is robust to changes in the environment (sensor breakdown or addition) through its graphical representation (scale well) and the reinforcement mechanism (adapt well). The experiments on realistic data demonstrate that this method promises to reach long life context-aware control of smart-home. 

Title: Multiview RGB-D Dataset for Object Instance Detection
Abstract:  This paper presents a new multi-view RGB-D dataset of nine kitchen scenes, each containing several objects in realistic cluttered environments including a subset of objects from the BigBird dataset. The viewpoints of the scenes are densely sampled and objects in the scenes are annotated with bounding boxes and in the 3D point cloud. Also, an approach for detection and recognition is presented, which is comprised of two parts: i) a new multi-view 3D proposal generation method and ii) the development of several recognition baselines using AlexNet to score our proposals, which is trained either on crops of the dataset or on synthetically composited training images. Finally, we compare the performance of the object proposals and a detection baseline to the Washington RGB-D Scenes (WRGB-D) dataset and demonstrate that our Kitchen scenes dataset is more challenging for object detection and recognition. The dataset is available at: http://cs.gmu.edu/~robot/gmu-kitchens.html. 

Title: Autonomous Aerial Cinematography In Unstructured Environments With Learned Artistic Decision-Making
Abstract:  Aerial cinematography is revolutionizing industries that require live and dynamic camera viewpoints such as entertainment, sports, and security. However, safely piloting a drone while filming a moving target in the presence of obstacles is immensely taxing, often requiring multiple expert human operators. Hence, there is demand for an autonomous cinematographer that can reason about both geometry and scene context in real-time. Existing approaches do not address all aspects of this problem; they either require high-precision motion-capture systems or GPS tags to localize targets, rely on prior maps of the environment, plan for short time horizons, or only follow artistic guidelines specified before flight. In this work, we address the problem in its entirety and propose a complete system for real-time aerial cinematography that for the first time combines: (1) vision-based target estimation; (2) 3D signed-distance mapping for occlusion estimation; (3) efficient trajectory optimization for long time-horizon camera motion; and (4) learning-based artistic shot selection. We extensively evaluate our system both in simulation and in field experiments by filming dynamic targets moving through unstructured environments. Our results indicate that our system can operate reliably in the real world without restrictive assumptions. We also provide in-depth analysis and discussions for each module, with the hope that our design tradeoffs can generalize to other related applications. Videos of the complete system can be found at: https://youtu.be/ookhHnqmlaU. 

Title: Leave no Trace: Learning to Reset for Safe and Autonomous Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning algorithms can learn complex behavioral skills, but real-world application of these methods requires a large amount of experience to be collected by the agent. In practical settings, such as robotics, this involves repeatedly attempting a task, resetting the environment between each attempt. However, not all tasks are easily or automatically reversible. In practice, this learning process requires extensive human intervention. In this work, we propose an autonomous method for safe and efficient reinforcement learning that simultaneously learns a forward and reset policy, with the reset policy resetting the environment for a subsequent attempt. By learning a value function for the reset policy, we can automatically determine when the forward policy is about to enter a non-reversible state, providing for uncertainty-aware safety aborts. Our experiments illustrate that proper use of the reset policy can greatly reduce the number of manual resets required to learn a task, can reduce the number of unsafe actions that lead to non-reversible states, and can automatically induce a curriculum. 

Title: Convolutional Neural Network-Based Image Representation for Visual Loop Closure Detection
Abstract:  Deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) have recently been shown in many computer vision and pattern recog- nition applications to outperform by a significant margin state- of-the-art solutions that use traditional hand-crafted features. However, this impressive performance is yet to be fully exploited in robotics. In this paper, we focus one specific problem that can benefit from the recent development of the CNN technology, i.e., we focus on using a pre-trained CNN model as a method of generating an image representation appropriate for visual loop closure detection in SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping). We perform a comprehensive evaluation of the outputs at the intermediate layers of a CNN as image descriptors, in comparison with state-of-the-art image descriptors, in terms of their ability to match images for detecting loop closures. The main conclusions of our study include: (a) CNN-based image representations perform comparably to state-of-the-art hand- crafted competitors in environments without significant lighting change, (b) they outperform state-of-the-art competitors when lighting changes significantly, and (c) they are also significantly faster to extract than the state-of-the-art hand-crafted features even on a conventional CPU and are two orders of magnitude faster on an entry-level GPU. 

Title: EfficientPS: Efficient Panoptic Segmentation
Abstract:  Understanding the scene in which an autonomous robot operates is critical for its competent functioning. Such scene comprehension necessitates recognizing instances of traffic participants along with general scene semantics which can be effectively addressed by the panoptic segmentation task. In this paper, we introduce the Efficient Panoptic Segmentation (EfficientPS) architecture that consists of a shared backbone which efficiently encodes and fuses semantically rich multi-scale features. We incorporate a new semantic head that aggregates fine and contextual features coherently and a new variant of Mask R-CNN as the instance head. We also propose a novel panoptic fusion module that congruously integrates the output logits from both the heads of our EfficientPS architecture to yield the final panoptic segmentation output. Additionally, we introduce the KITTI panoptic segmentation dataset that contains panoptic annotations for the popularly challenging KITTI benchmark. Extensive evaluations on Cityscapes, KITTI, Mapillary Vistas and Indian Driving Dataset demonstrate that our proposed architecture consistently sets the new state-of-the-art on all these four benchmarks while being the most efficient and fast panoptic segmentation architecture to date. 

Title: Deep Learning for Tactile Understanding From Visual and Haptic Data
Abstract:  Robots which interact with the physical world will benefit from a fine-grained tactile understanding of objects and surfaces. Additionally, for certain tasks, robots may need to know the haptic properties of an object before touching it. To enable better tactile understanding for robots, we propose a method of classifying surfaces with haptic adjectives (e.g., compressible or smooth) from both visual and physical interaction data. Humans typically combine visual predictions and feedback from physical interactions to accurately predict haptic properties and interact with the world. Inspired by this cognitive pattern, we propose and explore a purely visual haptic prediction model. Purely visual models enable a robot to "feel" without physical interaction. Furthermore, we demonstrate that using both visual and physical interaction signals together yields more accurate haptic classification. Our models take advantage of recent advances in deep neural networks by employing a unified approach to learning features for physical interaction and visual observations. Even though we employ little domain specific knowledge, our model still achieves better results than methods based on hand-designed features. 

Title: Skeleton Extraction from 3D Point Clouds by Decomposing the Object into Parts
Abstract:  Decomposing a point cloud into its components and extracting curve skeletons from point clouds are two related problems. Decomposition of a shape into its components is often obtained as a byproduct of skeleton extraction. In this work, we propose to extract curve skeletons, from unorganized point clouds, by decomposing the object into its parts, identifying part skeletons and then linking these part skeletons together to obtain the complete skeleton. We believe it is the most natural way to extract skeletons in the sense that this would be the way a human would approach the problem. Our parts are generalized cylinders (GCs). Since, the axis of a GC is an integral part of its definition, the parts have natural skeletal representations. We use translational symmetry, the fundamental property of GCs, to extract parts from point clouds. We demonstrate how this method can handle a large variety of shapes. We compare our method with state of the art methods and show how a part based approach can deal with some of the limitations of other methods. We present an improved version of an existing point set registration algorithm and demonstrate its utility in extracting parts from point clouds. We also show how this method can be used to extract skeletons from and identify parts of noisy point clouds. A part based approach also provides a natural and intuitive interface for user interaction. We demonstrate the ease with which mistakes, if any, can be fixed with minimal user interaction with the help of a graphical user interface. 

Title: Multi-object Monocular SLAM for Dynamic Environments
Abstract:  In this paper, we tackle the problem of multibody SLAM from a monocular camera. The term multibody, implies that we track the motion of the camera, as well as that of other dynamic participants in the scene. The quintessential challenge in dynamic scenes is unobservability: it is not possible to unambiguously triangulate a moving object from a moving monocular camera. Existing approaches solve restricted variants of the problem, but the solutions suffer relative scale ambiguity (i.e., a family of infinitely many solutions exist for each pair of motions in the scene). We solve this rather intractable problem by leveraging single-view metrology, advances in deep learning, and category-level shape estimation. We propose a multi pose-graph optimization formulation, to resolve the relative and absolute scale factor ambiguities involved. This optimization helps us reduce the average error in trajectories of multiple bodies over real-world datasets, such as KITTI. To the best of our knowledge, our method is the first practical monocular multi-body SLAM system to perform dynamic multi-object and ego localization in a unified framework in metric scale. 

Title: Distributed interference cancellation in multi-agent scenarios
Abstract:  This paper considers the problem of detecting impaired and noisy nodes over network. In a distributed algorithm, lots of processing units are incorporating and communicating with each other to reach a global goal. Due to each one's state in the shared environment, they can help the other nodes or mislead them (due to noise or a deliberate attempt). Previous works mainly focused on proper locating agents and weight assignment based on initial environment state to minimize malfunctioning of noisy nodes. We propose an algorithm to be able to adapt sharing weights according to behavior of the agents. Applying the introduced algorithm to a multi-agent RL scenario and the well-known diffusion LMS demonstrates its capability and generality. 

Title: Fast Online Adaptation in Robotics through Meta-Learning Embeddings of Simulated Priors
Abstract:  Meta-learning algorithms can accelerate the model-based reinforcement learning (MBRL) algorithms by finding an initial set of parameters for the dynamical model such that the model can be trained to match the actual dynamics of the system with only a few data-points. However, in the real world, a robot might encounter any situation starting from motor failures to finding itself in a rocky terrain where the dynamics of the robot can be significantly different from one another. In this paper, first, we show that when meta-training situations (the prior situations) have such diverse dynamics, using a single set of meta-trained parameters as a starting point still requires a large number of observations from the real system to learn a useful model of the dynamics. Second, we propose an algorithm called FAMLE that mitigates this limitation by meta-training several initial starting points (i.e., initial parameters) for training the model and allows the robot to select the most suitable starting point to adapt the model to the current situation with only a few gradient steps. We compare FAMLE to MBRL, MBRL with a meta-trained model with MAML, and model-free policy search algorithm PPO for various simulated and real robotic tasks, and show that FAMLE allows the robots to adapt to novel damages in significantly fewer time-steps than the baselines. 

Title: Sensor Fusion for Joint 3D Object Detection and Semantic Segmentation
Abstract:  In this paper, we present an extension to LaserNet, an efficient and state-of-the-art LiDAR based 3D object detector. We propose a method for fusing image data with the LiDAR data and show that this sensor fusion method improves the detection performance of the model especially at long ranges. The addition of image data is straightforward and does not require image labels. Furthermore, we expand the capabilities of the model to perform 3D semantic segmentation in addition to 3D object detection. On a large benchmark dataset, we demonstrate our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on both object detection and semantic segmentation while maintaining a low runtime. 

Title: Modular Vehicle Control for Transferring Semantic Information Between Weather Conditions Using GANs
Abstract:  Even though end-to-end supervised learning has shown promising results for sensorimotor control of self-driving cars, its performance is greatly affected by the weather conditions under which it was trained, showing poor generalization to unseen conditions. In this paper, we show how knowledge can be transferred using semantic maps to new weather conditions without the need to obtain new ground truth data. To this end, we propose to divide the task of vehicle control into two independent modules: a control module which is only trained on one weather condition for which labeled steering data is available, and a perception module which is used as an interface between new weather conditions and the fixed control module. To generate the semantic data needed to train the perception module, we propose to use a generative adversarial network (GAN)-based model to retrieve the semantic information for the new conditions in an unsupervised manner. We introduce a master-servant architecture, where the master model (semantic labels available) trains the servant model (semantic labels not available). We show that our proposed method trained with ground truth data for a single weather condition is capable of achieving similar results on the task of steering angle prediction as an end-to-end model trained with ground truth data of 15 different weather conditions. 

Title: Improving Sonar Image Patch Matching via Deep Learning
Abstract:  Matching sonar images with high accuracy has been a problem for a long time, as sonar images are inherently hard to model due to reflections, noise and viewpoint dependence. Autonomous Underwater Vehicles require good sonar image matching capabilities for tasks such as tracking, simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) and some cases of object detection/recognition. We propose the use of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) to learn a matching function that can be trained from labeled sonar data, after pre-processing to generate matching and non-matching pairs. In a dataset of 39K training pairs, we obtain 0.91 Area under the ROC Curve (AUC) for a CNN that outputs a binary classification matching decision, and 0.89 AUC for another CNN that outputs a matching score. In comparison, classical keypoint matching methods like SIFT, SURF, ORB and AKAZE obtain AUC 0.61 to 0.68. Alternative learning methods obtain similar results, with a Random Forest Classifier obtaining AUC 0.79, and a Support Vector Machine resulting in AUC 0.66. 

Title: FingerVision Tactile Sensor Design and Slip Detection Using Convolutional LSTM Network
Abstract:  Tactile sensing is essential to the human perception system, so as to robot. In this paper, we develop a novel optical-based tactile sensor "FingerVision" with effective signal processing algorithms. This sensor is composed of soft skin with embedded marker array bonded to rigid frame, and a web camera with a fisheye lens. While being excited with contact force, the camera tracks the movements of markers and deformation field is obtained. Compared to existing tactile sensors, our sensor features compact footprint, high resolution, and ease of fabrication. Besides, utilizing the deformation field estimation, we propose a slip classification framework based on convolution Long Short Term Memory (convolutional LSTM) networks. The data collection process takes advantage of the human sense of slip, during which human hand holds 12 daily objects, interacts with sensor skin and labels data with a slip or non-slip identity based on human feeling of slip. Our slip classification framework performs high accuracy of 97.62% on the test dataset. It is expected to be capable of enhancing the stability of robot grasping significantly, leading to better contact force control, finer object interaction and more active sensing manipulation. 

Title: Deep Active Learning for Efficient Training of a LiDAR 3D Object Detector
Abstract:  Training a deep object detector for autonomous driving requires a huge amount of labeled data. While recording data via on-board sensors such as camera or LiDAR is relatively easy, annotating data is very tedious and time-consuming, especially when dealing with 3D LiDAR points or radar data. Active learning has the potential to minimize human annotation efforts while maximizing the object detector's performance. In this work, we propose an active learning method to train a LiDAR 3D object detector with the least amount of labeled training data necessary. The detector leverages 2D region proposals generated from the RGB images to reduce the search space of objects and speed up the learning process. Experiments show that our proposed method works under different uncertainty estimations and query functions, and can save up to 60% of the labeling efforts while reaching the same network performance. 

Title: Enhancement performance of road recognition system of autonomous robots in shadow scenario
Abstract:  Road region recognition is a main feature that is gaining increasing attention from intellectuals because it helps autonomous vehicle to achieve a successful navigation without accident. However, different techniques based on camera sensor have been used by various researchers and outstanding results have been achieved. Despite their success, environmental noise like shadow leads to inaccurate recognition of road region which eventually leads to accident for autonomous vehicle. In this research, we conducted an investigation on shadow and its effects, optimized the road region recognition system of autonomous vehicle by introducing an algorithm capable of detecting and eliminating the effects of shadow. The experimental performance of our system was tested and compared using the following schemes: Total Positive Rate (TPR), False Negative Rate (FNR), Total Negative Rate (TNR), Error Rate (ERR) and False Positive Rate (FPR). The performance result of the system improved on road recognition in shadow scenario and this advancement has added tremendously to successful navigation approaches for autonomous vehicle. 

Title: Imitation Learning for Autonomous Trajectory Learning of Robot Arms in Space
Abstract:  This work adds on to the on-going efforts to provide more autonomy to space robots. Here the concept of programming by demonstration or imitation learning is used for trajectory planning of manipulators mounted on small spacecraft. For greater autonomy in future space missions and minimal human intervention through ground control, a robot arm having 7-Degrees of Freedom (DoF) is envisaged for carrying out multiple tasks like debris removal, on-orbit servicing and assembly. Since actual hardware implementation of microgravity environment is extremely expensive, the demonstration data for trajectory learning is generated using a model predictive controller (MPC) in a physics based simulator. The data is then encoded compactly by Probabilistic Movement Primitives (ProMPs). This offline trajectory learning allows faster reproductions and also avoids any computationally expensive optimizations after deployment in a space environment. It is shown that the probabilistic distribution can be used to generate trajectories to previously unseen situations by conditioning the distribution. The motion of the robot (or manipulator) arm induces reaction forces on the spacecraft hub and hence its attitude changes prompting the Attitude Determination and Control System (ADCS) to take large corrective action that drains energy out of the system. By having a robot arm with redundant DoF helps in finding several possible trajectories from the same start to the same target. This allows the ProMP trajectory generator to sample out the trajectory which is obstacle free as well as having minimal attitudinal disturbances thereby reducing the load on ADCS. 

Title: Scalable Place Recognition Under Appearance Change for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  A major challenge in place recognition for autonomous driving is to be robust against appearance changes due to short-term (e.g., weather, lighting) and long-term (seasons, vegetation growth, etc.) environmental variations. A promising solution is to continuously accumulate images to maintain an adequate sample of the conditions and incorporate new changes into the place recognition decision. However, this demands a place recognition technique that is scalable on an ever growing dataset. To this end, we propose a novel place recognition technique that can be efficiently retrained and compressed, such that the recognition of new queries can exploit all available data (including recent changes) without suffering from visible growth in computational cost. Underpinning our method is a novel temporal image matching technique based on Hidden Markov Models. Our experiments show that, compared to state-of-the-art techniques, our method has much greater potential for large-scale place recognition for autonomous driving. 

Title: Ultrasound-Guided Robotic Navigation with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  In this paper we introduce the first reinforcement learning (RL) based robotic navigation method which utilizes ultrasound (US) images as an input. Our approach combines state-of-the-art RL techniques, specifically deep Q-networks (DQN) with memory buffers and a binary classifier for deciding when to terminate the task. Our method is trained and evaluated on an in-house collected data-set of 34 volunteers and when compared to pure RL and supervised learning (SL) techniques, it performs substantially better, which highlights the suitability of RL navigation for US-guided procedures. When testing our proposed model, we obtained a 82.91% chance of navigating correctly to the sacrum from 165 different starting positions on 5 different unseen simulated environments. 

Title: BADGR: An Autonomous Self-Supervised Learning-Based Navigation System
Abstract:  Mobile robot navigation is typically regarded as a geometric problem, in which the robot's objective is to perceive the geometry of the environment in order to plan collision-free paths towards a desired goal. However, a purely geometric view of the world can can be insufficient for many navigation problems. For example, a robot navigating based on geometry may avoid a field of tall grass because it believes it is untraversable, and will therefore fail to reach its desired goal. In this work, we investigate how to move beyond these purely geometric-based approaches using a method that learns about physical navigational affordances from experience. Our approach, which we call BADGR, is an end-to-end learning-based mobile robot navigation system that can be trained with self-supervised off-policy data gathered in real-world environments, without any simulation or human supervision. BADGR can navigate in real-world urban and off-road environments with geometrically distracting obstacles. It can also incorporate terrain preferences, generalize to novel environments, and continue to improve autonomously by gathering more data. Videos, code, and other supplemental material are available on our website https://sites.google.com/view/badgr 

Title: Recurrent Deterministic Policy Gradient Method for Bipedal Locomotion on Rough Terrain Challenge
Abstract:  This paper presents a deep learning framework that is capable of solving partially observable locomotion tasks based on our novel interpretation of Recurrent Deterministic Policy Gradient (RDPG). We study on bias of sampled error measure and its variance induced by the partial observability of environment and subtrajectory sampling, respectively. Three major improvements are introduced in our RDPG based learning framework: tail-step bootstrap of interpolated temporal difference, initialisation of hidden state using past trajectory scanning, and injection of external experiences learned by other agents. The proposed learning framework was implemented to solve the Bipedal-Walker challenge in OpenAI's gym simulation environment where only partial state information is available. Our simulation study shows that the autonomous behaviors generated by the RDPG agent are highly adaptive to a variety of obstacles and enables the agent to effectively traverse rugged terrains for long distance with higher success rate than leading contenders. 

Title: Gym-Ignition: Reproducible Robotic Simulations for Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  This paper presents Gym-Ignition, a new framework to create reproducible robotic environments for reinforcement learning research. It interfaces with the new generation of Gazebo, part of the Ignition Robotics suite, which provides three main improvements for reinforcement learning applications compared to the alternatives: 1) the modular architecture enables using the simulator as a C++ library, simplifying the interconnection with external software; 2) multiple physics and rendering engines are supported as plugins, simplifying their selection during the execution; 3) the new distributed simulation capability allows simulating complex scenarios while sharing the load on multiple workers and machines. The core of Gym-Ignition is a component that contains the Ignition Gazebo simulator and exposes a simple interface for its configuration and execution. We provide a Python package that allows developers to create robotic environments simulated in Ignition Gazebo. Environments expose the common OpenAI Gym interface, making them compatible out-of-the-box with third-party frameworks containing reinforcement learning algorithms. Simulations can be executed in both headless and GUI mode, the physics engine can run in accelerated mode, and instances can be parallelized. Furthermore, the Gym-Ignition software architecture provides abstraction of the Robot and the Task, making environments agnostic on the specific runtime. This abstraction allows their execution also in a real-time setting on actual robotic platforms, even if driven by different middlewares. 

Title: Towards Better Generalization: Joint Depth-Pose Learning without PoseNet
Abstract:  In this work, we tackle the essential problem of scale inconsistency for self-supervised joint depth-pose learning. Most existing methods assume that a consistent scale of depth and pose can be learned across all input samples, which makes the learning problem harder, resulting in degraded performance and limited generalization in indoor environments and long-sequence visual odometry application. To address this issue, we propose a novel system that explicitly disentangles scale from the network estimation. Instead of relying on PoseNet architecture, our method recovers relative pose by directly solving fundamental matrix from dense optical flow correspondence and makes use of a two-view triangulation module to recover an up-to-scale 3D structure. Then, we align the scale of the depth prediction with the triangulated point cloud and use the transformed depth map for depth error computation and dense reprojection check. Our whole system can be jointly trained end-to-end. Extensive experiments show that our system not only reaches state-of-the-art performance on KITTI depth and flow estimation, but also significantly improves the generalization ability of existing self-supervised depth-pose learning methods under a variety of challenging scenarios, and achieves state-of-the-art results among self-supervised learning-based methods on KITTI Odometry and NYUv2 dataset. Furthermore, we present some interesting findings on the limitation of PoseNet-based relative pose estimation methods in terms of generalization ability. Code is available at https://github.com/B1ueber2y/TrianFlow. 

Title: Deep execution monitor for robot assistive tasks
Abstract:  We consider a novel approach to high-level robot task execution for a robot assistive task. In this work we explore the problem of learning to predict the next subtask by introducing a deep model for both sequencing goals and for visually evaluating the state of a task. We show that deep learning for monitoring robot tasks execution very well supports the interconnection between task-level planning and robot operations. These solutions can also cope with the natural non-determinism of the execution monitor. We show that a deep execution monitor leverages robot performance. We measure the improvement taking into account some robot helping tasks performed at a warehouse. 

Title: Integrating Algorithmic Planning and Deep Learning for Partially Observable Navigation
Abstract:  We propose to take a novel approach to robot system design where each building block of a larger system is represented as a differentiable program, i.e. a deep neural network. This representation allows for integrating algorithmic planning and deep learning in a principled manner, and thus combine the benefits of model-free and model-based methods. We apply the proposed approach to a challenging partially observable robot navigation task. The robot must navigate to a goal in a previously unseen 3-D environment without knowing its initial location, and instead relying on a 2-D floor map and visual observations from an onboard camera. We introduce the Navigation Networks (NavNets) that encode state estimation, planning and acting in a single, end-to-end trainable recurrent neural network. In preliminary simulation experiments we successfully trained navigation networks to solve the challenging partially observable navigation task. 

Title: Multi-Task Reinforcement Learning based Mobile Manipulation Control for Dynamic Object Tracking and Grasping
Abstract:  Agile control of mobile manipulator is challenging because of the high complexity coupled by the robotic system and the unstructured working environment. Tracking and grasping a dynamic object with a random trajectory is even harder. In this paper, a multi-task reinforcement learning-based mobile manipulation control framework is proposed to achieve general dynamic object tracking and grasping. Several basic types of dynamic trajectories are chosen as the task training set. To improve the policy generalization in practice, random noise and dynamics randomization are introduced during the training process. Extensive experiments show that our policy trained can adapt to unseen random dynamic trajectories with about 0.1m tracking error and 75\% grasping success rate of dynamic objects. The trained policy can also be successfully deployed on a real mobile manipulator. 

Title: Deep Neural Network Based Subspace Learning of Robotic Manipulator Workspace Mapping
Abstract:  The manipulator workspace mapping is an important problem in robotics and has attracted significant attention in the community. However, most of the pre-existing algorithms have expensive time complexity due to the reliance on sophisticated kinematic equations. To solve this problem, this paper introduces subspace learning (SL), a variant of subspace embedding, where a set of robot and scope parameters is mapped to the corresponding workspace by a deep neural network (DNN). Trained on a large dataset of around $\mathbf{6\times 10^4}$ samples obtained from a MATLAB$^\circledR$ implementation of a classical method and sampling of designed uniform distributions, the experiments demonstrate that the embedding significantly reduces run-time from $\mathbf{5.23 \times 10^3}$ s of traditional discretization method to $\mathbf{0.224}$ s, with high accuracies (average F-measure is $\mathbf{0.9665}$ with batch gradient descent and resilient backpropagation). 

Title: Combining Optimal Control and Learning for Visual Navigation in Novel Environments
Abstract:  Model-based control is a popular paradigm for robot navigation because it can leverage a known dynamics model to efficiently plan robust robot trajectories. However, it is challenging to use model-based methods in settings where the environment is a priori unknown and can only be observed partially through on-board sensors on the robot. In this work, we address this short-coming by coupling model-based control with learning-based perception. The learning-based perception module produces a series of waypoints that guide the robot to the goal via a collision-free path. These waypoints are used by a model-based planner to generate a smooth and dynamically feasible trajectory that is executed on the physical system using feedback control. Our experiments in simulated real-world cluttered environments and on an actual ground vehicle demonstrate that the proposed approach can reach goal locations more reliably and efficiently in novel environments as compared to purely geometric mapping-based or end-to-end learning-based alternatives. Our approach does not rely on detailed explicit 3D maps of the environment, works well with low frame rates, and generalizes well from simulation to the real world. Videos describing our approach and experiments are available on the project website. 

Title: Data-efficient Auto-tuning with Bayesian Optimization: An Industrial Control Study
Abstract:  Bayesian optimization is proposed for automatic learning of optimal controller parameters from experimental data. A probabilistic description (a Gaussian process) is used to model the unknown function from controller parameters to a user-defined cost. The probabilistic model is updated with data, which is obtained by testing a set of parameters on the physical system and evaluating the cost. In order to learn fast, the Bayesian optimization algorithm selects the next parameters to evaluate in a systematic way, for example, by maximizing information gain about the optimum. The algorithm thus iteratively finds the globally optimal parameters with only few experiments. Taking throttle valve control as a representative industrial control example, the proposed auto-tuning method is shown to outperform manual calibration: it consistently achieves better performance with a low number of experiments. The proposed auto-tuning framework is flexible and can handle different control structures and objectives. 

Title: Towards Embodied Scene Description
Abstract:  Embodiment is an important characteristic for all intelligent agents (creatures and robots), while existing scene description tasks mainly focus on analyzing images passively and the semantic understanding of the scenario is separated from the interaction between the agent and the environment. In this work, we propose the Embodied Scene Description, which exploits the embodiment ability of the agent to find an optimal viewpoint in its environment for scene description tasks. A learning framework with the paradigms of imitation learning and reinforcement learning is established to teach the intelligent agent to generate corresponding sensorimotor activities. The proposed framework is tested on both the AI2Thor dataset and a real world robotic platform demonstrating the effectiveness and extendability of the developed method. 

Title: PedX: Benchmark Dataset for Metric 3D Pose Estimation of Pedestrians in Complex Urban Intersections
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel dataset titled PedX, a large-scale multimodal collection of pedestrians at complex urban intersections. PedX consists of more than 5,000 pairs of high-resolution (12MP) stereo images and LiDAR data along with providing 2D and 3D labels of pedestrians. We also present a novel 3D model fitting algorithm for automatic 3D labeling harnessing constraints across different modalities and novel shape and temporal priors. All annotated 3D pedestrians are localized into the real-world metric space, and the generated 3D models are validated using a mocap system configured in a controlled outdoor environment to simulate pedestrians in urban intersections. We also show that the manual 2D labels can be replaced by state-of-the-art automated labeling approaches, thereby facilitating automatic generation of large scale datasets. 

Title: A Spiking Neural Learning Classifier System
Abstract:  Learning Classifier Systems (LCS) are population-based reinforcement learners used in a wide variety of applications. This paper presents a LCS where each traditional rule is represented by a spiking neural network, a type of network with dynamic internal state. We employ a constructivist model of growth of both neurons and dendrites that realise flexible learning by evolving structures of sufficient complexity to solve a well-known problem involving continuous, real-valued inputs. Additionally, we extend the system to enable temporal state decomposition. By allowing our LCS to chain together sequences of heterogeneous actions into macro-actions, it is shown to perform optimally in a problem where traditional methods can fail to find a solution in a reasonable amount of time. Our final system is tested on a simulated robotics platform. 

Title: Gaussian Process-Based Decentralized Data Fusion and Active Sensing for Mobility-on-Demand System
Abstract:  Mobility-on-demand (MoD) systems have recently emerged as a promising paradigm of one-way vehicle sharing for sustainable personal urban mobility in densely populated cities. In this paper, we enhance the capability of a MoD system by deploying robotic shared vehicles that can autonomously cruise the streets to be hailed by users. A key challenge to managing the MoD system effectively is that of real-time, fine-grained mobility demand sensing and prediction. This paper presents a novel decentralized data fusion and active sensing algorithm for real-time, fine-grained mobility demand sensing and prediction with a fleet of autonomous robotic vehicles in a MoD system. Our Gaussian process (GP)-based decentralized data fusion algorithm can achieve a fine balance between predictive power and time efficiency. We theoretically guarantee its predictive performance to be equivalent to that of a sophisticated centralized sparse approximation for the GP model: The computation of such a sparse approximate GP model can thus be distributed among the MoD vehicles, hence achieving efficient and scalable demand prediction. Though our decentralized active sensing strategy is devised to gather the most informative demand data for demand prediction, it can achieve a dual effect of fleet rebalancing to service the mobility demands. Empirical evaluation on real-world mobility demand data shows that our proposed algorithm can achieve a better balance between predictive accuracy and time efficiency than state-of-the-art algorithms. 

Title: Unstructured Human Activity Detection from RGBD Images
Abstract:  Being able to detect and recognize human activities is essential for several applications, including personal assistive robotics. In this paper, we perform detection and recognition of unstructured human activity in unstructured environments. We use a RGBD sensor (Microsoft Kinect) as the input sensor, and compute a set of features based on human pose and motion, as well as based on image and pointcloud information. Our algorithm is based on a hierarchical maximum entropy Markov model (MEMM), which considers a person's activity as composed of a set of sub-activities. We infer the two-layered graph structure using a dynamic programming approach. We test our algorithm on detecting and recognizing twelve different activities performed by four people in different environments, such as a kitchen, a living room, an office, etc., and achieve good performance even when the person was not seen before in the training set. 

Title: Towards a Skeleton-Based Action Recognition For Realistic Scenarios
Abstract:  Understanding human actions is a crucial problem for service robots. However, the general trend in Action Recognition is developing and testing these systems on structured datasets. That's why this work presents a practical Skeleton-based Action Recognition framework which can be used in realistic scenarios. Our results show that although non-augmented and non-normalized data may yield comparable results on the test split of the dataset, it is far from being useful on another dataset which is a manually collected data. 

Title: Continuous and Simultaneous Gesture and Posture Recognition for Commanding a Robotic Wheelchair; Towards Spotting the Signal Patterns
Abstract:  Spotting signal patterns with varying lengths has been still an open problem in the literature. In this study, we describe a signal pattern recognition approach for continuous and simultaneous classification of a tracked hand's posture and gestures and map them to steering commands for control of a robotic wheelchair. The developed methodology not only affords 100\% recognition accuracy on a streaming signal for continuous recognition, but also brings about a new perspective for building a training dictionary which eliminates human intervention to spot the gesture or postures on a training signal. In the training phase we employ a state of art subspace clustering method to find the most representative state samples. The recognition and training framework reveal boundaries of the patterns on the streaming signal with a successive decision tree structure intrinsically. We make use of the Collaborative ans Block Sparse Representation based classification methods for continuous gesture and posture recognition. 

Title: Constructing Parsimonious Analytic Models for Dynamic Systems via Symbolic Regression
Abstract:  Developing mathematical models of dynamic systems is central to many disciplines of engineering and science. Models facilitate simulations, analysis of the system's behavior, decision making and design of automatic control algorithms. Even inherently model-free control techniques such as reinforcement learning (RL) have been shown to benefit from the use of models, typically learned online. Any model construction method must address the tradeoff between the accuracy of the model and its complexity, which is difficult to strike. In this paper, we propose to employ symbolic regression (SR) to construct parsimonious process models described by analytic equations. We have equipped our method with two different state-of-the-art SR algorithms which automatically search for equations that fit the measured data: Single Node Genetic Programming (SNGP) and Multi-Gene Genetic Programming (MGGP). In addition to the standard problem formulation in the state-space domain, we show how the method can also be applied to input-output models of the NARX (nonlinear autoregressive with exogenous input) type. We present the approach on three simulated examples with up to 14-dimensional state space: an inverted pendulum, a mobile robot, and a bipedal walking robot. A comparison with deep neural networks and local linear regression shows that SR in most cases outperforms these commonly used alternative methods. We demonstrate on a real pendulum system that the analytic model found enables a RL controller to successfully perform the swing-up task, based on a model constructed from only 100 data samples. 

Title: Interactive Differentiable Simulation
Abstract:  Intelligent agents need a physical understanding of the world to predict the impact of their actions in the future. While learning-based models of the environment dynamics have contributed to significant improvements in sample efficiency compared to model-free reinforcement learning algorithms, they typically fail to generalize to system states beyond the training data, while often grounding their predictions on non-interpretable latent variables. We introduce Interactive Differentiable Simulation (IDS), a differentiable physics engine, that allows for efficient, accurate inference of physical properties of rigid-body systems. Integrated into deep learning architectures, our model is able to accomplish system identification using visual input, leading to an interpretable model of the world whose parameters have physical meaning. We present experiments showing automatic task-based robot design and parameter estimation for nonlinear dynamical systems by automatically calculating gradients in IDS. When integrated into an adaptive model-predictive control algorithm, our approach exhibits orders of magnitude improvements in sample efficiency over model-free reinforcement learning algorithms on challenging nonlinear control domains. 

Title: Hierarchical Multi-task Deep Neural Network Architecture for End-to-End Driving
Abstract:  A novel hierarchical Deep Neural Network (DNN) model is presented to address the task of end-to-end driving. The model consists of a master classifier network which determines the driving task required from an input stereo image and directs said image to one of a set of subservient network regression models that perform inference and output a steering command. These subservient networks are designed and trained for a specific driving task: straightaway, swerve maneuver, tight turn, gradual turn, and chicane. Using this modular network strategy allows for two primary advantages: an overall reduction in the amount of data required to train the complete system, and for model tailoring where more complex models can be used for more challenging tasks while simplified networks can handle more mundane tasks. It is this latter facet of the model that makes the approach attractive to a number of applications beyond the current vehicle steering strategy. 

Title: ES-MAML: Simple Hessian-Free Meta Learning
Abstract:  We introduce ES-MAML, a new framework for solving the model agnostic meta learning (MAML) problem based on Evolution Strategies (ES). Existing algorithms for MAML are based on policy gradients, and incur significant difficulties when attempting to estimate second derivatives using backpropagation on stochastic policies. We show how ES can be applied to MAML to obtain an algorithm which avoids the problem of estimating second derivatives, and is also conceptually simple and easy to implement. Moreover, ES-MAML can handle new types of nonsmooth adaptation operators, and other techniques for improving performance and estimation of ES methods become applicable. We show empirically that ES-MAML is competitive with existing methods and often yields better adaptation with fewer queries. 

Title: A Self-Supervised Learning Approach to Rapid Path Planning for Car-Like Vehicles Maneuvering in Urban Environment
Abstract:  An efficient path planner for autonomous car-like vehicles should handle the strong kinematic constraints, particularly in confined spaces commonly encountered while maneuvering in city traffic, and should enable rapid planning, as the city traffic scenarios are highly dynamic. State-of-the-art planning algorithms handle such difficult cases at high computational cost, often yielding non-deterministic results. However, feasible local paths can be quickly generated leveraging the past planning experience gained in the same or similar environment. While learning through supervised training is problematic for real traffic scenarios, we introduce in this paper a novel neural network-based method for path planning, which employs a gradient-based self-supervised learning algorithm to predict feasible paths. This approach strongly exploits the experience gained in the past and rapidly yields feasible maneuver plans for car-like vehicles with limited steering-angle. The effectiveness of such an approach has been confirmed by computational experiments. 

Title: The Field-of-View Constraint of Markers for Mobile Robot with Pan-Tilt Camera
Abstract:  In the field of navigation and visual servo, it is common to calculate relative pose by feature points on markers, so keeping markers in camera's view is an important problem. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to calculate field-of-view (FOV) constraint of markers for camera. Our method can make the camera maintain the visibility of all feature points during the motion of mobile robot. According to the angular aperture of camera, the mobile robot can obtain the FOV constraint region where the camera cannot keep all feature points in an image. Based on the FOV constraint region, the mobile robot can be guided to move from the initial position to destination. Finally simulations and experiments are conducted based on a mobile robot equipped with a pan-tilt camera, which validates the effectiveness of the method to obtain the FOV constraints. 

Title: DeepRacing: Parameterized Trajectories for Autonomous Racing
Abstract:  We consider the challenging problem of high speed autonomous racing in a realistic Formula One environment. DeepRacing is a novel end-to-end framework, and a virtual testbed for training and evaluating algorithms for autonomous racing. The virtual testbed is implemented using the realistic F1 series of video games, developed by Codemasters, which many Formula One drivers use for training. This virtual testbed is released under an open-source license both as a standalone C++ API and as a binding to the popular Robot Operating System 2 (ROS2) framework. This open-source API allows anyone to use the high fidelity physics and photo-realistic capabilities of the F1 game as a simulator, and without hacking any game engine code. We use this framework to evaluate several neural network methodologies for autonomous racing. Specifically, we consider several fully end-to-end models that directly predict steering and acceleration commands for an autonomous race car as well as a model that predicts a list of waypoints to follow in the car's local coordinate system, with the task of selecting a steering/throttle angle left to a classical control algorithm. We also present a novel method of autonomous racing by training a deep neural network to predict a parameterized representation of a trajectory rather than a list of waypoints. We evaluate these models performance in our open-source simulator and show that trajectory prediction far outperforms end-to-end driving. Additionally, we show that open-loop performance for an end-to-end model, i.e. root-mean-square error for a model's predicted control values, does not necessarily correlate with increased driving performance in the closed-loop sense, i.e. actual ability to race around a track. Finally, we show that our proposed model of parameterized trajectory prediction outperforms both end-to-end control and waypoint prediction. 

Title: Towards Better Performance and More Explainable Uncertainty for 3D Object Detection of Autonomous Vehicles
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a novel form of the loss function to increase the performance of LiDAR-based 3d object detection and obtain more explainable and convincing uncertainty for the prediction. The loss function was designed using corner transformation and uncertainty modeling. With the new loss function, the performance of our method on the val split of KITTI dataset shows up to a 15% increase in terms of Average Precision (AP) comparing with the baseline using simple L1 Loss. In the study of the characteristics of predicted uncertainties, we find that generally more accurate prediction of the bounding box is usually accompanied by lower uncertainty. The distribution of corner uncertainties agrees on the distribution of the point cloud in the bounding box, which means the corner with denser observed points has lower uncertainty. Moreover, our method also learns the constraint from the cuboid geometry of the bounding box in uncertainty prediction. Finally, we propose an efficient Bayesian updating method to recover the uncertainty for the original parameters of the bounding boxes which can help to provide probabilistic results for the planning module. 

Title: An embedded system for the automated generation of labeled plant images to enable machine learning applications in agriculture
Abstract:  A lack of sufficient training data, both in terms of variety and quantity, is often the bottleneck in the development of machine learning (ML) applications in any domain. For agricultural applications, ML-based models designed to perform tasks such as autonomous plant classification will typically be coupled to just one or perhaps a few plant species. As a consequence, each crop-specific task is very likely to require its own specialized training data, and the question of how to serve this need for data now often overshadows the more routine exercise of actually training such models. To tackle this problem, we have developed an embedded robotic system to automatically generate and label large datasets of plant images for ML applications in agriculture. The system can image plants from virtually any angle, thereby ensuring a wide variety of data; and with an imaging rate of up to one image per second, it can produce lableled datasets on the scale of thousands to tens of thousands of images per day. As such, this system offers an important alternative to time- and cost-intensive methods of manual generation and labeling. Furthermore, the use of a uniform background made of blue keying fabric enables additional image processing techniques such as background replacement and plant segmentation. It also helps in the training process, essentially forcing the model to focus on the plant features and eliminating random correlations. To demonstrate the capabilities of our system, we generated a dataset of over 34,000 labeled images, with which we trained an ML-model to distinguish grasses from non-grasses in test data from a variety of sources. We now plan to generate much larger datasets of Canadian crop plants and weeds that will be made publicly available in the hope of further enabling ML applications in the agriculture sector. 

Title: Multi-Task Regression-based Learning for Autonomous Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Flight Control within Unstructured Outdoor Environments
Abstract:  Increased growth in the global Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) (drone) industry has expanded possibilities for fully autonomous UAV applications. A particular application which has in part motivated this research is the use of UAV in wide area search and surveillance operations in unstructured outdoor environments. The critical issue with such environments is the lack of structured features that could aid in autonomous flight, such as road lines or paths. In this paper, we propose an End-to-End Multi-Task Regression-based Learning approach capable of defining flight commands for navigation and exploration under the forest canopy, regardless of the presence of trails or additional sensors (i.e. GPS). Training and testing are performed using a software in the loop pipeline which allows for a detailed evaluation against state-of-the-art pose estimation techniques. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach excels in performing dense exploration within the required search perimeter, is capable of covering wider search regions, generalises to previously unseen and unexplored environments and outperforms contemporary state-of-the-art techniques. 

Title: FP-Stereo: Hardware-Efficient Stereo Vision for Embedded Applications
Abstract:  Fast and accurate depth estimation, or stereo matching, is essential in embedded stereo vision systems, requiring substantial design effort to achieve an appropriate balance among accuracy, speed and hardware cost. To reduce the design effort and achieve the right balance, we propose FP-Stereo for building high-performance stereo matching pipelines on FPGAs automatically. FP-Stereo consists of an open-source hardware-efficient library, allowing designers to obtain the desired implementation instantly. Diverse methods are supported in our library for each stage of the stereo matching pipeline and a series of techniques are developed to exploit the parallelism and reduce the resource overhead. To improve the usability, FP-Stereo can generate synthesizable C code of the FPGA accelerator with our optimized HLS templates automatically. To guide users for the right design choice meeting specific application requirements, detailed comparisons are performed on various configurations of our library to investigate the accuracy/speed/cost trade-off. Experimental results also show that FP-Stereo outperforms the state-of-the-art FPGA design from all aspects, including 6.08% lower error, 2x faster speed, 30% less resource usage and 40% less energy consumption. Compared to GPU designs, FP-Stereo achieves the same accuracy at a competitive speed while consuming much less energy. 

Title: Learning Pose Estimation for UAV Autonomous Navigation andLanding Using Visual-Inertial Sensor Data
Abstract:  In this work, we propose a new learning approach for autonomous navigation and landing of an Unmanned-Aerial-Vehicle (UAV). We develop a multimodal fusion of deep neural architectures for visual-inertial odometry. We train the model in an end-to-end fashion to estimate the current vehicle pose from streams of visual and inertial measurements. We first evaluate the accuracy of our estimation by comparing the prediction of the model to traditional algorithms on the publicly available EuRoC MAV dataset. The results illustrate a $25 \%$ improvement in estimation accuracy over the baseline. Finally, we integrate the architecture in the closed-loop flight control system of Airsim - a plugin simulator for Unreal Engine - and we provide simulation results for autonomous navigation and landing. 

Title: Supervised Policy Update for Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  We propose a new sample-efficient methodology, called Supervised Policy Update (SPU), for deep reinforcement learning. Starting with data generated by the current policy, SPU formulates and solves a constrained optimization problem in the non-parameterized proximal policy space. Using supervised regression, it then converts the optimal non-parameterized policy to a parameterized policy, from which it draws new samples. The methodology is general in that it applies to both discrete and continuous action spaces, and can handle a wide variety of proximity constraints for the non-parameterized optimization problem. We show how the Natural Policy Gradient and Trust Region Policy Optimization (NPG/TRPO) problems, and the Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) problem can be addressed by this methodology. The SPU implementation is much simpler than TRPO. In terms of sample efficiency, our extensive experiments show SPU outperforms TRPO in Mujoco simulated robotic tasks and outperforms PPO in Atari video game tasks. 

Title: Solving Visual Object Ambiguities when Pointing: An Unsupervised Learning Approach
Abstract:  Whenever we are addressing a specific object or refer to a certain spatial location, we are using referential or deictic gestures usually accompanied by some verbal description. Especially pointing gestures are necessary to dissolve ambiguities in a scene and they are of crucial importance when verbal communication may fail due to environmental conditions or when two persons simply do not speak the same language. With the currently increasing advances of humanoid robots and their future integration in domestic domains, the development of gesture interfaces complementing human-robot interaction scenarios is of substantial interest. The implementation of an intuitive gesture scenario is still challenging because both the pointing intention and the corresponding object have to be correctly recognized in real-time. The demand increases when considering pointing gestures in a cluttered environment, as is the case in households. Also, humans perform pointing in many different ways and those variations have to be captured. Research in this field often proposes a set of geometrical computations which do not scale well with the number of gestures and objects, use specific markers or a predefined set of pointing directions. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised learning approach to model the distribution of pointing gestures using a growing-when-required (GWR) network. We introduce an interaction scenario with a humanoid robot and define so-called ambiguity classes. Our implementation for the hand and object detection is independent of any markers or skeleton models, thus it can be easily reproduced. Our evaluation comparing a baseline computer vision approach with our GWR model shows that the pointing-object association is well learned even in cases of ambiguities resulting from close object proximity. 

Title: TrashCan: A Semantically-Segmented Dataset towards Visual Detection of Marine Debris
Abstract:  This paper presents TrashCan, a large dataset comprised of images of underwater trash collected from a variety of sources, annotated both using bounding boxes and segmentation labels, for development of robust detectors of marine debris. The dataset has two versions, TrashCan-Material and TrashCan-Instance, corresponding to different object class configurations. The eventual goal is to develop efficient and accurate trash detection methods suitable for onboard robot deployment. Along with information about the construction and sourcing of the TrashCan dataset, we present initial results of instance segmentation from Mask R-CNN and object detection from Faster R-CNN. These do not represent the best possible detection results but provides an initial baseline for future work in instance segmentation and object detection on the TrashCan dataset. 

Title: ROVO: Robust Omnidirectional Visual Odometry for Wide-baseline Wide-FOV Camera Systems
Abstract:  In this paper we propose a robust visual odometry system for a wide-baseline camera rig with wide field-of-view (FOV) fisheye lenses, which provides full omnidirectional stereo observations of the environment. For more robust and accurate ego-motion estimation we adds three components to the standard VO pipeline, 1) the hybrid projection model for improved feature matching, 2) multi-view P3P RANSAC algorithm for pose estimation, and 3) online update of rig extrinsic parameters. The hybrid projection model combines the perspective and cylindrical projection to maximize the overlap between views and minimize the image distortion that degrades feature matching performance. The multi-view P3P RANSAC algorithm extends the conventional P3P RANSAC to multi-view images so that all feature matches in all views are considered in the inlier counting for robust pose estimation. Finally the online extrinsic calibration is seamlessly integrated in the backend optimization framework so that the changes in camera poses due to shocks or vibrations can be corrected automatically. The proposed system is extensively evaluated with synthetic datasets with ground-truth and real sequences of highly dynamic environment, and its superior performance is demonstrated. 

Title: Invariant Policy Optimization: Towards Stronger Generalization in Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  A fundamental challenge in reinforcement learning is to learn policies that generalize beyond the operating domains experienced during training. In this paper, we approach this challenge through the following invariance principle: an agent must find a representation such that there exists an action-predictor built on top of this representation that is simultaneously optimal across all training domains. Intuitively, the resulting invariant policy enhances generalization by finding causes of successful actions. We propose a novel learning algorithm, Invariant Policy Optimization (IPO), that implements this principle and learns an invariant policy during training. We compare our approach with standard policy gradient methods and demonstrate significant improvements in generalization performance on unseen domains for linear quadratic regulator and grid-world problems, and an example where a robot must learn to open doors with varying physical properties. 

Title: Line-Circle: A Geometric Filter for Single Camera Edge-Based Object Detection
Abstract:  This paper presents a state-of-the-art approach in object detection for being applied in future SLAM problems. Although, many SLAM methods are proposed to create suitable autonomy for mobile robots namely ground vehicles, they still face overconfidence and large computations during entrance to immense spaces with many landmarks. In particular, they suffer from impractical applications via sole reliance on the limited sensors like camera. Proposed method claims that unmanned ground vehicles without having huge amount of database for object definition and highly advance prediction parameters can deal with incoming objects during straight motion of camera in real-time. Line-Circle (LC) filter tries to apply detection, tracking and learning to each defined experts to obtain more information for judging scene without over-calculation. In this filter, circle expert let us summarize edges in groups. The Interactive feedback learning between each expert creates minimal error that fights against overwhelming landmark signs in crowded scenes without mapping. Our experts basically are dependent on trust factors' covariance with geometric definitions to ignore, emerge and compare detected landmarks. The experiment for validating the model is taken place utilizing a camera beside an IMU sensor for location estimation. 

Title: RoboCupSimData: A RoboCup soccer research dataset
Abstract:  RoboCup is an international scientific robot competition in which teams of multiple robots compete against each other. Its different leagues provide many sources of robotics data, that can be used for further analysis and application of machine learning. This paper describes a large dataset from games of some of the top teams (from 2016 and 2017) in RoboCup Soccer Simulation League (2D), where teams of 11 robots (agents) compete against each other. Overall, we used 10 different teams to play each other, resulting in 45 unique pairings. For each pairing, we ran 25 matches (of 10mins), leading to 1125 matches or more than 180 hours of game play. The generated CSV files are 17GB of data (zipped), or 229GB (unzipped). The dataset is unique in the sense that it contains both the ground truth data (global, complete, noise-free information of all objects on the field), as well as the noisy, local and incomplete percepts of each robot. These data are made available as CSV files, as well as in the original soccer simulator formats. 

Title: From exploration to control: learning object manipulation skills through novelty search and local adaptation
Abstract:  Programming a robot to deal with open-ended tasks remains a challenge, in particular if the robot has to manipulate objects. Launching, grasping, pushing or any other object interaction can be simulated but the corresponding models are not reversible and the robot behavior thus cannot be directly deduced. These behaviors are hard to learn without a demonstration as the search space is large and the reward sparse. We propose a method to autonomously generate a diverse repertoire of simple object interaction behaviors in simulation. Our goal is to bootstrap a robot learning and development process with limited informations about what the robot has to achieve and how. This repertoire can be exploited to solve different tasks in reality thanks to a proposed adaptation method or could be used as a training set for data-hungry algorithms. The proposed approach relies on the definition of a goal space and generates a repertoire of trajectories to reach attainable goals, thus allowing the robot to control this goal space. The repertoire is built with an off-the-shelf simulation thanks to a quality diversity algorithm. The result is a set of solutions tested in simulation only. It may result in two different problems: (1) as the repertoire is discrete and finite, it may not contain the trajectory to deal with a given situation or (2) some trajectories may lead to a behavior in reality that differs from simulation because of a reality gap. We propose an approach to deal with both issues by using a local linearization between the motion parameters and the observed effects. Furthermore, we present an approach to update the existing solution repertoire with the tests done on the real robot. The approach has been validated on two different experiments on the Baxter robot: a ball launching and a joystick manipulation tasks. 

Title: Measurement-wise Occlusion in Multi-object Tracking
Abstract:  Handling object interaction is a fundamental challenge in practical multi-object tracking, even for simple interactive effects such as one object temporarily occluding another. We formalize the problem of occlusion in tracking with two different abstractions. In object-wise occlusion, objects that are occluded by other objects do not generate measurements. In measurement-wise occlusion, a previously unstudied approach, all objects may generate measurements but some measurements may be occluded by others. While the relative validity of each abstraction depends on the situation and sensor, measurement-wise occlusion fits into probabilistic multi-object tracking algorithms with much looser assumptions on object interaction. Its value is demonstrated by showing that it naturally derives a popular approximation for lidar tracking, and by an example of visual tracking in image space. 

Title: Multi-Modal Human-Machine Communication for Instructing Robot Grasping Tasks
Abstract:  A major challenge for the realization of intelligent robots is to supply them with cognitive abilities in order to allow ordinary users to program them easily and intuitively. One way of such programming is teaching work tasks by interactive demonstration. To make this effective and convenient for the user, the machine must be capable to establish a common focus of attention and be able to use and integrate spoken instructions, visual perceptions, and non-verbal clues like gestural commands. We report progress in building a hybrid architecture that combines statistical methods, neural networks, and finite state machines into an integrated system for instructing grasping tasks by man-machine interaction. The system combines the GRAVIS-robot for visual attention and gestural instruction with an intelligent interface for speech recognition and linguistic interpretation, and an modality fusion module to allow multi-modal task-oriented man-machine communication with respect to dextrous robot manipulation of objects. 

Title: Interactive Robot Learning of Gestures, Language and Affordances
Abstract:  A growing field in robotics and Artificial Intelligence (AI) research is human-robot collaboration, whose target is to enable effective teamwork between humans and robots. However, in many situations human teams are still superior to human-robot teams, primarily because human teams can easily agree on a common goal with language, and the individual members observe each other effectively, leveraging their shared motor repertoire and sensorimotor resources. This paper shows that for cognitive robots it is possible, and indeed fruitful, to combine knowledge acquired from interacting with elements of the environment (affordance exploration) with the probabilistic observation of another agent's actions. We propose a model that unites (i) learning robot affordances and word descriptions with (ii) statistical recognition of human gestures with vision sensors. We discuss theoretical motivations, possible implementations, and we show initial results which highlight that, after having acquired knowledge of its surrounding environment, a humanoid robot can generalize this knowledge to the case when it observes another agent (human partner) performing the same motor actions previously executed during training. 

Title: A Framework for Constrained and Adaptive Behavior-Based Agents
Abstract:  Behavior Trees are commonly used to model agents for robotics and games, where constrained behaviors must be designed by human experts in order to guarantee that these agents will execute a specific chain of actions given a specific set of perceptions. In such application areas, learning is a desirable feature to provide agents with the ability to adapt and improve interactions with humans and environment, but often discarded due to its unreliability. In this paper, we propose a framework that uses Reinforcement Learning nodes as part of Behavior Trees to address the problem of adding learning capabilities in constrained agents. We show how this framework relates to Options in Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning, ensuring convergence of nested learning nodes, and we empirically show that the learning nodes do not affect the execution of other nodes in the tree. 

Title: MultiPath: Multiple Probabilistic Anchor Trajectory Hypotheses for Behavior Prediction
Abstract:  Predicting human behavior is a difficult and crucial task required for motion planning. It is challenging in large part due to the highly uncertain and multi-modal set of possible outcomes in real-world domains such as autonomous driving. Beyond single MAP trajectory prediction, obtaining an accurate probability distribution of the future is an area of active interest. We present MultiPath, which leverages a fixed set of future state-sequence anchors that correspond to modes of the trajectory distribution. At inference, our model predicts a discrete distribution over the anchors and, for each anchor, regresses offsets from anchor waypoints along with uncertainties, yielding a Gaussian mixture at each time step. Our model is efficient, requiring only one forward inference pass to obtain multi-modal future distributions, and the output is parametric, allowing compact communication and analytical probabilistic queries. We show on several datasets that our model achieves more accurate predictions, and compared to sampling baselines, does so with an order of magnitude fewer trajectories. 

Title: PyramNet: Point Cloud Pyramid Attention Network and Graph Embedding Module for Classification and Segmentation
Abstract:  With the tide of artificial intelligence, we try to apply deep learning to understand 3D data. Point cloud is an important 3D data structure, which can accurately and directly reflect the real world. In this paper, we propose a simple and effective network, which is named PyramNet, suites for point cloud object classification and semantic segmentation in 3D scene. We design two new operators: Graph Embedding Module(GEM) and Pyramid Attention Network(PAN). Specifically, GEM projects point cloud onto the graph and practices the covariance matrix to explore the relationship between points, so as to improve the local feature expression ability of the model. PAN assigns some strong semantic features to each point to retain fine geometric features as much as possible. Furthermore, we provide extensive evaluation and analysis for the effectiveness of PyramNet. Empirically, we evaluate our model on ModelNet40, ShapeNet and S3DIS. 

Title: Joint Learning of Instance and Semantic Segmentation for Robotic Pick-and-Place with Heavy Occlusions in Clutter
Abstract:  We present joint learning of instance and semantic segmentation for visible and occluded region masks. Sharing the feature extractor with instance occlusion segmentation, we introduce semantic occlusion segmentation into the instance segmentation model. This joint learning fuses the instance- and image-level reasoning of the mask prediction on the different segmentation tasks, which was missing in the previous work of learning instance segmentation only (instance-only). In the experiments, we evaluated the proposed joint learning comparing the instance-only learning on the test dataset. We also applied the joint learning model to 2 different types of robotic pick-and-place tasks (random and target picking) and evaluated its effectiveness to achieve real-world robotic tasks. 

Title: Comparing Computing Platforms for Deep Learning on a Humanoid Robot
Abstract:  The goal of this study is to test two different computing platforms with respect to their suitability for running deep networks as part of a humanoid robot software system. One of the platforms is the CPU-centered Intel NUC7i7BNH and the other is a NVIDIA Jetson TX2 system that puts more emphasis on GPU processing. The experiments addressed a number of benchmarking tasks including pedestrian detection using deep neural networks. Some of the results were unexpected but demonstrate that platforms exhibit both advantages and disadvantages when taking computational performance and electrical power requirements of such a system into account. 

Title: Adversarial Discriminative Sim-to-real Transfer of Visuo-motor Policies
Abstract:  Various approaches have been proposed to learn visuo-motor policies for real-world robotic applications. One solution is first learning in simulation then transferring to the real world. In the transfer, most existing approaches need real-world images with labels. However, the labelling process is often expensive or even impractical in many robotic applications. In this paper, we propose an adversarial discriminative sim-to-real transfer approach to reduce the cost of labelling real data. The effectiveness of the approach is demonstrated with modular networks in a table-top object reaching task where a 7 DoF arm is controlled in velocity mode to reach a blue cuboid in clutter through visual observations. The adversarial transfer approach reduced the labelled real data requirement by 50%. Policies can be transferred to real environments with only 93 labelled and 186 unlabelled real images. The transferred visuo-motor policies are robust to novel (not seen in training) objects in clutter and even a moving target, achieving a 97.8% success rate and 1.8 cm control accuracy. 

Title: Deep Kinematic Models for Physically Realistic Prediction of Vehicle Trajectories
Abstract:  Self-driving vehicles (SDVs) hold great potential for improving traffic safety and are poised to positively affect the quality of life of millions of people. To unlock this potential one of the critical aspects of the autonomous technology is understanding and predicting future movement of vehicles surrounding the SDV. This work presents a deep-learning-based method for kinematically feasible motion prediction of such traffic actors. Previous work did not explicitly encode vehicle kinematics and instead relied on the models to learn the constraints directly from the data, potentially resulting in kinematically infeasible, suboptimal trajectory predictions. To address this issue we propose a method that seamlessly combines ideas from the AI with physically grounded vehicle motion models. In this way we employ best of the both worlds, coupling powerful learning models with strong feasibility guarantees for their outputs. The proposed approach is general, being applicable to any type of learning method. Extensive experiments using deep convnets on real-world data strongly indicate its benefits, outperforming the existing state-of-the-art. 

Title: Fast and Robust Detection of Fallen People from a Mobile Robot
Abstract:  This paper deals with the problem of detecting fallen people lying on the floor by means of a mobile robot equipped with a 3D depth sensor. In the proposed algorithm, inspired by semantic segmentation techniques, the 3D scene is over-segmented into small patches. Fallen people are then detected by means of two SVM classifiers: the first one labels each patch, while the second one captures the spatial relations between them. This novel approach showed to be robust and fast. Indeed, thanks to the use of small patches, fallen people in real cluttered scenes with objects side by side are correctly detected. Moreover, the algorithm can be executed on a mobile robot fitted with a standard laptop making it possible to exploit the 2D environmental map built by the robot and the multiple points of view obtained during the robot navigation. Additionally, this algorithm is robust to illumination changes since it does not rely on RGB data but on depth data. All the methods have been thoroughly validated on the IASLAB-RGBD Fallen Person Dataset, which is published online as a further contribution. It consists of several static and dynamic sequences with 15 different people and 2 different environments. 

Title: WoodScape: A multi-task, multi-camera fisheye dataset for autonomous driving
Abstract:  Fisheye cameras are commonly employed for obtaining a large field of view in surveillance, augmented reality and in particular automotive applications. In spite of their prevalence, there are few public datasets for detailed evaluation of computer vision algorithms on fisheye images. We release the first extensive fisheye automotive dataset, WoodScape, named after Robert Wood who invented the fisheye camera in 1906. WoodScape comprises of four surround view cameras and nine tasks including segmentation, depth estimation, 3D bounding box detection and soiling detection. Semantic annotation of 40 classes at the instance level is provided for over 10,000 images and annotation for other tasks are provided for over 100,000 images. With WoodScape, we would like to encourage the community to adapt computer vision models for fisheye camera instead of using naive rectification. 

Title: Learning Task-Driven Control Policies via Information Bottlenecks
Abstract:  This paper presents a reinforcement learning approach to synthesizing task-driven control policies for robotic systems equipped with rich sensory modalities (e.g., vision or depth). Standard reinforcement learning algorithms typically produce policies that tightly couple control actions to the entirety of the system's state and rich sensor observations. As a consequence, the resulting policies can often be sensitive to changes in task-irrelevant portions of the state or observations (e.g., changing background colors). In contrast, the approach we present here learns to create a task-driven representation that is used to compute control actions. Formally, this is achieved by deriving a policy gradient-style algorithm that creates an information bottleneck between the states and the task-driven representation; this constrains actions to only depend on task-relevant information. We demonstrate our approach in a thorough set of simulation results on multiple examples including a grasping task that utilizes depth images and a ball-catching task that utilizes RGB images. Comparisons with a standard policy gradient approach demonstrate that the task-driven policies produced by our algorithm are often significantly more robust to sensor noise and task-irrelevant changes in the environment. 

Title: Exploring applications of deep reinforcement learning for real-world autonomous driving systems
Abstract:  Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) has become increasingly powerful in recent years, with notable achievements such as Deepmind's AlphaGo. It has been successfully deployed in commercial vehicles like Mobileye's path planning system. However, a vast majority of work on DRL is focused on toy examples in controlled synthetic car simulator environments such as TORCS and CARLA. In general, DRL is still at its infancy in terms of usability in real-world applications. Our goal in this paper is to encourage real-world deployment of DRL in various autonomous driving (AD) applications. We first provide an overview of the tasks in autonomous driving systems, reinforcement learning algorithms and applications of DRL to AD systems. We then discuss the challenges which must be addressed to enable further progress towards real-world deployment. 

Title: Nonmyopic View Planning for Active Object Detection
Abstract:  One of the central problems in computer vision is the detection of semantically important objects and the estimation of their pose. Most of the work in object detection has been based on single image processing and its performance is limited by occlusions and ambiguity in appearance and geometry. This paper proposes an active approach to object detection by controlling the point of view of a mobile depth camera. When an initial static detection phase identifies an object of interest, several hypotheses are made about its class and orientation. The sensor then plans a sequence of views, which balances the amount of energy used to move with the chance of identifying the correct hypothesis. We formulate an active hypothesis testing problem, which includes sensor mobility, and solve it using a point-based approximate POMDP algorithm. The validity of our approach is verified through simulation and real-world experiments with the PR2 robot. The results suggest that our approach outperforms the widely-used greedy view point selection and provides a significant improvement over static object detection. 

Title: Photorealistic Image Synthesis for Object Instance Detection
Abstract:  We present an approach to synthesize highly photorealistic images of 3D object models, which we use to train a convolutional neural network for detecting the objects in real images. The proposed approach has three key ingredients: (1) 3D object models are rendered in 3D models of complete scenes with realistic materials and lighting, (2) plausible geometric configuration of objects and cameras in a scene is generated using physics simulations, and (3) high photorealism of the synthesized images achieved by physically based rendering. When trained on images synthesized by the proposed approach, the Faster R-CNN object detector achieves a 24% absolute improvement of mAP@.75IoU on Rutgers APC and 11% on LineMod-Occluded datasets, compared to a baseline where the training images are synthesized by rendering object models on top of random photographs. This work is a step towards being able to effectively train object detectors without capturing or annotating any real images. A dataset of 600K synthetic images with ground truth annotations for various computer vision tasks will be released on the project website: thodan.github.io/objectsynth. 

Title: Machine Vision in the Context of Robotics: A Systematic Literature Review
Abstract:  Machine vision is critical to robotics due to a wide range of applications which rely on input from visual sensors such as autonomous mobile robots and smart production systems. To create the smart homes and systems of tomorrow, an overview about current challenges in the research field would be of use to identify further possible directions, created in a systematic and reproducible manner. In this work a systematic literature review was conducted covering research from the last 10 years. We screened 172 papers from four databases and selected 52 relevant papers. While robustness and computation time were improved greatly, occlusion and lighting variance are still the biggest problems faced. From the number of recent publications, we conclude that the observed field is of relevance and interest to the research community. Further challenges arise in many areas of the field. 

Title: Factored Contextual Policy Search with Bayesian Optimization
Abstract:  Scarce data is a major challenge to scaling robot learning to truly complex tasks, as we need to generalize locally learned policies over different "contexts". Bayesian optimization approaches to contextual policy search (CPS) offer data-efficient policy learning that generalize over a context space. We propose to improve data-efficiency by factoring typically considered contexts into two components: target-type contexts that correspond to a desired outcome of the learned behavior, e.g. target position for throwing a ball; and environment type contexts that correspond to some state of the environment, e.g. initial ball position or wind speed. Our key observation is that experience can be directly generalized over target-type contexts. Based on that we introduce Factored Contextual Policy Search with Bayesian Optimization for both passive and active learning settings. Preliminary results show faster policy generalization on a simulated toy problem. A full paper extension is available at arXiv:1904.11761 

Title: Continuous-Discrete Reinforcement Learning for Hybrid Control in Robotics
Abstract:  Many real-world control problems involve both discrete decision variables - such as the choice of control modes, gear switching or digital outputs - as well as continuous decision variables - such as velocity setpoints, control gains or analogue outputs. However, when defining the corresponding optimal control or reinforcement learning problem, it is commonly approximated with fully continuous or fully discrete action spaces. These simplifications aim at tailoring the problem to a particular algorithm or solver which may only support one type of action space. Alternatively, expert heuristics are used to remove discrete actions from an otherwise continuous space. In contrast, we propose to treat hybrid problems in their 'native' form by solving them with hybrid reinforcement learning, which optimizes for discrete and continuous actions simultaneously. In our experiments, we first demonstrate that the proposed approach efficiently solves such natively hybrid reinforcement learning problems. We then show, both in simulation and on robotic hardware, the benefits of removing possibly imperfect expert-designed heuristics. Lastly, hybrid reinforcement learning encourages us to rethink problem definitions. We propose reformulating control problems, e.g. by adding meta actions, to improve exploration or reduce mechanical wear and tear. 

Title: Model-Based Reinforcement Learning for Physical Systems Without Velocity and Acceleration Measurements
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a derivative-free model learning framework for Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithms based on Gaussian Process Regression (GPR). In many mechanical systems, only positions can be measured by the sensing instruments. Then, instead of representing the system state as suggested by the physics with a collection of positions, velocities, and accelerations, we define the state as the set of past position measurements. However, the equation of motions derived by physical first principles cannot be directly applied in this framework, being functions of velocities and accelerations. For this reason, we introduce a novel derivative-free physically-inspired kernel, which can be easily combined with nonparametric derivative-free Gaussian Process models. Tests performed on two real platforms show that the considered state definition combined with the proposed model improves estimation performance and data-efficiency w.r.t. traditional models based on GPR. Finally, we validate the proposed framework by solving two RL control problems for two real robotic systems. 

Title: Driving among Flatmobiles: Bird-Eye-View occupancy grids from a monocular camera for holistic trajectory planning
Abstract:  Camera-based end-to-end driving neural networks bring the promise of a low-cost system that maps camera images to driving control commands. These networks are appealing because they replace laborious hand engineered building blocks but their black-box nature makes them difficult to delve in case of failure. Recent works have shown the importance of using an explicit intermediate representation that has the benefits of increasing both the interpretability and the accuracy of networks' decisions. Nonetheless, these camera-based networks reason in camera view where scale is not homogeneous and hence not directly suitable for motion forecasting. In this paper, we introduce a novel monocular camera-only holistic end-to-end trajectory planning network with a Bird-Eye-View (BEV) intermediate representation that comes in the form of binary Occupancy Grid Maps (OGMs). To ease the prediction of OGMs in BEV from camera images, we introduce a novel scheme where the OGMs are first predicted as semantic masks in camera view and then warped in BEV using the homography between the two planes. The key element allowing this transformation to be applied to 3D objects such as vehicles, consists in predicting solely their footprint in camera-view, hence respecting the flat world hypothesis implied by the homography. 

Title: High-Precision Localization Using Ground Texture
Abstract:  Location-aware applications play an increasingly critical role in everyday life. However, satellite-based localization (e.g., GPS) has limited accuracy and can be unusable in dense urban areas and indoors. We introduce an image-based global localization system that is accurate to a few millimeters and performs reliable localization both indoors and outside. The key idea is to capture and index distinctive local keypoints in ground textures. This is based on the observation that ground textures including wood, carpet, tile, concrete, and asphalt may look random and homogeneous, but all contain cracks, scratches, or unique arrangements of fibers. These imperfections are persistent, and can serve as local features. Our system incorporates a downward-facing camera to capture the fine texture of the ground, together with an image processing pipeline that locates the captured texture patch in a compact database constructed offline. We demonstrate the capability of our system to robustly, accurately, and quickly locate test images on various types of outdoor and indoor ground surfaces. 

Title: Learning-to-Fly: Learning-based Collision Avoidance for Scalable Urban Air Mobility
Abstract:  With increasing urban population, there is global interest in Urban Air Mobility (UAM), where hundreds of autonomous Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) execute missions in the airspace above cities. Unlike traditional human-in-the-loop air traffic management, UAM requires decentralized autonomous approaches that scale for an order of magnitude higher aircraft densities and are applicable to urban settings. We present Learning-to-Fly (L2F), a decentralized on-demand airborne collision avoidance framework for multiple UAS that allows them to independently plan and safely execute missions with spatial, temporal and reactive objectives expressed using Signal Temporal Logic. We formulate the problem of predictively avoiding collisions between two UAS without violating mission objectives as a Mixed Integer Linear Program (MILP).This however is intractable to solve online. Instead, we develop L2F, a two-stage collision avoidance method that consists of: 1) a learning-based decision-making scheme and 2) a distributed, linear programming-based UAS control algorithm. Through extensive simulations, we show the real-time applicability of our method which is $\approx\!6000\times$ faster than the MILP approach and can resolve $100\%$ of collisions when there is ample room to maneuver, and shows graceful degradation in performance otherwise. We also compare L2F to two other methods and demonstrate an implementation on quad-rotor robots. 

Title: Mapping Navigation Instructions to Continuous Control Actions with Position-Visitation Prediction
Abstract:  We propose an approach for mapping natural language instructions and raw observations to continuous control of a quadcopter drone. Our model predicts interpretable position-visitation distributions indicating where the agent should go during execution and where it should stop, and uses the predicted distributions to select the actions to execute. This two-step model decomposition allows for simple and efficient training using a combination of supervised learning and imitation learning. We evaluate our approach with a realistic drone simulator, and demonstrate absolute task-completion accuracy improvements of 16.85% over two state-of-the-art instruction-following methods. 

Title: Real-World Human-Robot Collaborative Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  The intuitive collaboration of humans and intelligent robots (embodied AI) in the real-world is an essential objective for many desirable applications of robotics. Whilst there is much research regarding explicit communication, we focus on how humans and robots interact implicitly, on motor adaptation level. We present a real-world setup of a human-robot collaborative maze game, designed to be non-trivial and only solvable through collaboration, by limiting the actions to rotations of two orthogonal axes, and assigning each axes to one player. This results in neither the human nor the agent being able to solve the game on their own. We use deep reinforcement learning for the control of the robotic agent, and achieve results within 30 minutes of real-world play, without any type of pre-training. We then use this setup to perform systematic experiments on human/agent behaviour and adaptation when co-learning a policy for the collaborative game. We present results on how co-policy learning occurs over time between the human and the robotic agent resulting in each participant's agent serving as a representation of how they would play the game. This allows us to relate a person's success when playing with different agents than their own, by comparing the policy of the agent with that of their own agent. 

Title: Towards Generalizing Sensorimotor Control Across Weather Conditions
Abstract:  The ability of deep learning models to generalize well across different scenarios depends primarily on the quality and quantity of annotated data. Labeling large amounts of data for all possible scenarios that a model may encounter would not be feasible; if even possible. We propose a framework to deal with limited labeled training data and demonstrate it on the application of vision-based vehicle control. We show how limited steering angle data available for only one condition can be transferred to multiple different weather scenarios. This is done by leveraging unlabeled images in a teacher-student learning paradigm complemented with an image-to-image translation network. The translation network transfers the images to a new domain, whereas the teacher provides soft supervised targets to train the student on this domain. Furthermore, we demonstrate how utilization of auxiliary networks can reduce the size of a model at inference time, without affecting the accuracy. The experiments show that our approach generalizes well across multiple different weather conditions using only ground truth labels from one domain. 

Title: Differentiable Particle Filters: End-to-End Learning with Algorithmic Priors
Abstract:  We present differentiable particle filters (DPFs): a differentiable implementation of the particle filter algorithm with learnable motion and measurement models. Since DPFs are end-to-end differentiable, we can efficiently train their models by optimizing end-to-end state estimation performance, rather than proxy objectives such as model accuracy. DPFs encode the structure of recursive state estimation with prediction and measurement update that operate on a probability distribution over states. This structure represents an algorithmic prior that improves learning performance in state estimation problems while enabling explainability of the learned model. Our experiments on simulated and real data show substantial benefits from end-to- end learning with algorithmic priors, e.g. reducing error rates by ~80%. Our experiments also show that, unlike long short-term memory networks, DPFs learn localization in a policy-agnostic way and thus greatly improve generalization. Source code is available at https://github.com/tu-rbo/differentiable-particle-filters . 

Title: Adding Cues to Binary Feature Descriptors for Visual Place Recognition
Abstract:  In this paper we propose an approach to embed continuous and selector cues in binary feature descriptors used for visual place recognition. The embedding is achieved by extending each feature descriptor with a binary string that encodes a cue and supports the Hamming distance metric. Augmenting the descriptors in such a way has the advantage of being transparent to the procedure used to compare them. We present two concrete applications of our methodology, demonstrating the two considered types of cues. In addition to that, we conducted on these applications a broad quantitative and comparative evaluation covering five benchmark datasets and several state-of-the-art image retrieval approaches in combination with various binary descriptor types. 

Title: Neural Task Programming: Learning to Generalize Across Hierarchical Tasks
Abstract:  In this work, we propose a novel robot learning framework called Neural Task Programming (NTP), which bridges the idea of few-shot learning from demonstration and neural program induction. NTP takes as input a task specification (e.g., video demonstration of a task) and recursively decomposes it into finer sub-task specifications. These specifications are fed to a hierarchical neural program, where bottom-level programs are callable subroutines that interact with the environment. We validate our method in three robot manipulation tasks. NTP achieves strong generalization across sequential tasks that exhibit hierarchal and compositional structures. The experimental results show that NTP learns to generalize well to- wards unseen tasks with increasing lengths, variable topologies, and changing objectives. 

Title: Learning to Predict Robot Keypoints Using Artificially Generated Images
Abstract:  This work considers robot keypoint estimation on color images as a supervised machine learning task. We propose the use of probabilistically created renderings to overcome the lack of labeled real images. Rather than sampling from stationary distributions, our approach introduces a feedback mechanism that constantly adapts probability distributions according to current training progress. Initial results show, our approach achieves near-human-level accuracy on real images. Additionally, we demonstrate that feedback leads to fewer required training steps, while maintaining the same model quality on synthetic data sets. 

Title: Cooperative Perception with Deep Reinforcement Learning for Connected Vehicles
Abstract:  Sensor-based perception on vehicles are becoming prevalent and important to enhance the road safety. Autonomous driving systems use cameras, LiDAR, and radar to detect surrounding objects, while human-driven vehicles use them to assist the driver. However, the environmental perception by individual vehicles has the limitations on coverage and/or detection accuracy. For example, a vehicle cannot detect objects occluded by other moving/static obstacles. In this paper, we present a cooperative perception scheme with deep reinforcement learning to enhance the detection accuracy for the surrounding objects. By using the deep reinforcement learning to select the data to transmit, our scheme mitigates the network load in vehicular communication networks and enhances the communication reliability. To design, test, and verify the cooperative perception scheme, we develop a Cooperative & Intelligent Vehicle Simulation (CIVS) Platform, which integrates three software components: traffic simulator, vehicle simulator, and object classifier. We evaluate that our scheme decreases packet loss and thereby increases the detection accuracy by up to 12%, compared to the baseline protocol. 

Title: A survey on sensing methods and feature extraction algorithms for SLAM problem
Abstract:  This paper is a survey work for a bigger project for designing a Visual SLAM robot to generate 3D dense map of an unknown unstructured environment. A lot of factors have to be considered while designing a SLAM robot. Sensing method of the SLAM robot should be determined by considering the kind of environment to be modeled. Similarly the type of environment determines the suitable feature extraction method. This paper goes through the sensing methods used in some recently published papers. The main objective of this survey is to conduct a comparative study among the current sensing methods and feature extraction algorithms and to extract out the best for our work. 

Title: Learning Search Space Partition for Black-box Optimization using Monte Carlo Tree Search
Abstract:  High dimensional black-box optimization has broad applications but remains a challenging problem to solve. Given a set of samples $\{\vx_i, y_i\}$, building a global model (like Bayesian Optimization (BO)) suffers from the curse of dimensionality in the high-dimensional search space, while a greedy search may lead to sub-optimality. By recursively splitting the search space into regions with high/low function values, recent works like LaNAS shows good performance in Neural Architecture Search (NAS), reducing the sample complexity empirically. In this paper, we coin LA-MCTS that extends LaNAS to other domains. Unlike previous approaches, LA-MCTS learns the partition of the search space using a few samples and their function values in an online fashion. While LaNAS uses linear partition and performs uniform sampling in each region, our LA-MCTS adopts a nonlinear decision boundary and learns a local model to pick good candidates. If the nonlinear partition function and the local model fits well with ground-truth black-box function, then good partitions and candidates can be reached with much fewer samples. LA-MCTS serves as a \emph{meta-algorithm} by using existing black-box optimizers (e.g., BO, TuRBO) as its local models, achieving strong performance in general black-box optimization and reinforcement learning benchmarks, in particular for high-dimensional problems. 

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning in a Handful of Trials using Probabilistic Dynamics Models
Abstract:  Model-based reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms can attain excellent sample efficiency, but often lag behind the best model-free algorithms in terms of asymptotic performance. This is especially true with high-capacity parametric function approximators, such as deep networks. In this paper, we study how to bridge this gap, by employing uncertainty-aware dynamics models. We propose a new algorithm called probabilistic ensembles with trajectory sampling (PETS) that combines uncertainty-aware deep network dynamics models with sampling-based uncertainty propagation. Our comparison to state-of-the-art model-based and model-free deep RL algorithms shows that our approach matches the asymptotic performance of model-free algorithms on several challenging benchmark tasks, while requiring significantly fewer samples (e.g., 8 and 125 times fewer samples than Soft Actor Critic and Proximal Policy Optimization respectively on the half-cheetah task). 

Title: DFKI Cabin Simulator: A Test Platform for Visual In-Cabin Monitoring Functions
Abstract:  We present a test platform for visual in-cabin scene analysis and occupant monitoring functions. The test platform is based on a driving simulator developed at the DFKI, consisting of a realistic in-cabin mock-up and a wide-angle projection system for a realistic driving experience. The platform has been equipped with a wide-angle 2D/3D camera system monitoring the entire interior of the vehicle mock-up of the simulator. It is also supplemented with a ground truth reference sensor system that allows to track and record the occupant's body movements synchronously with the 2D and 3D video streams of the camera. Thus, the resulting test platform will serve as a basis to validate numerous in-cabin monitoring functions, which are important for the realization of novel human-vehicle interfaces, advanced driver assistant systems, and automated driving. Among the considered functions are occupant presence detection, size and 3D-pose estimation and driver intention recognition. In addition, our platform will be the basis for the creation of large-scale in-cabin benchmark datasets. 

Title: Relation-Shape Convolutional Neural Network for Point Cloud Analysis
Abstract:  Point cloud analysis is very challenging, as the shape implied in irregular points is difficult to capture. In this paper, we propose RS-CNN, namely, Relation-Shape Convolutional Neural Network, which extends regular grid CNN to irregular configuration for point cloud analysis. The key to RS-CNN is learning from relation, i.e., the geometric topology constraint among points. Specifically, the convolutional weight for local point set is forced to learn a high-level relation expression from predefined geometric priors, between a sampled point from this point set and the others. In this way, an inductive local representation with explicit reasoning about the spatial layout of points can be obtained, which leads to much shape awareness and robustness. With this convolution as a basic operator, RS-CNN, a hierarchical architecture can be developed to achieve contextual shape-aware learning for point cloud analysis. Extensive experiments on challenging benchmarks across three tasks verify RS-CNN achieves the state of the arts. 

Title: ViPR: Visual-Odometry-aided Pose Regression for 6DoF Camera Localization
Abstract:  Visual Odometry (VO) accumulates a positional drift in long-term robot navigation tasks. Although Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) improve VO in various aspects, VO still suffers from moving obstacles, discontinuous observation of features, and poor textures or visual information. While recent approaches estimate a 6DoF pose either directly from (a series of) images or by merging depth maps with optical flow (OF), research that combines absolute pose regression with OF is limited. We propose ViPR, a novel modular architecture for long-term 6DoF VO that leverages temporal information and synergies between absolute pose estimates (from PoseNet-like modules) and relative pose estimates (from FlowNet-based modules) by combining both through recurrent layers. Experiments on known datasets and on our own Industry dataset show that our modular design outperforms state of the art in long-term navigation tasks. 

Title: Distributed Reinforcement Learning of Targeted Grasping with Active Vision for Mobile Manipulators
Abstract:  Developing personal robots that can perform a diverse range of manipulation tasks in unstructured environments necessitates solving several challenges for robotic grasping systems. We take a step towards this broader goal by presenting the first RL-based system, to our knowledge, for a mobile manipulator that can (a) achieve targeted grasping generalizing to unseen target objects, (b) learn complex grasping strategies for cluttered scenes with occluded objects, and (c) perform active vision through its movable wrist camera to better locate objects. The system is informed of the desired target object in the form of a single, arbitrary-pose RGB image of that object, enabling the system to generalize to unseen objects without retraining. To achieve such a system, we combine several advances in deep reinforcement learning and present a large-scale distributed training system using synchronous SGD that seamlessly scales to multi-node, multi-GPU infrastructure to make rapid prototyping easier. We train and evaluate our system in a simulated environment, identify key components for improving performance, analyze its behaviors, and transfer to a real-world setup. 

Title: Find Your Own Way: Weakly-Supervised Segmentation of Path Proposals for Urban Autonomy
Abstract:  We present a weakly-supervised approach to segmenting proposed drivable paths in images with the goal of autonomous driving in complex urban environments. Using recorded routes from a data collection vehicle, our proposed method generates vast quantities of labelled images containing proposed paths and obstacles without requiring manual annotation, which we then use to train a deep semantic segmentation network. With the trained network we can segment proposed paths and obstacles at run-time using a vehicle equipped with only a monocular camera without relying on explicit modelling of road or lane markings. We evaluate our method on the large-scale KITTI and Oxford RobotCar datasets and demonstrate reliable path proposal and obstacle segmentation in a wide variety of environments under a range of lighting, weather and traffic conditions. We illustrate how the method can generalise to multiple path proposals at intersections and outline plans to incorporate the system into a framework for autonomous urban driving. 

Title: On Training Flexible Robots using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  The use of robotics in controlled environments has flourished over the last several decades and training robots to perform tasks using control strategies developed from dynamical models of their hardware have proven very effective. However, in many real-world settings, the uncertainties of the environment, the safety requirements and generalized capabilities that are expected of robots make rigid industrial robots unsuitable. This created great research interest into developing control strategies for flexible robot hardware for which building dynamical models are challenging. In this paper, inspired by the success of deep reinforcement learning (DRL) in other areas, we systematically study the efficacy of policy search methods using DRL in training flexible robots. Our results indicate that DRL is successfully able to learn efficient and robust policies for complex tasks at various degrees of flexibility. We also note that DRL using Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients can be sensitive to the choice of sensors and adding more informative sensors does not necessarily make the task easier to learn. 

Title: ClusterNet: 3D Instance Segmentation in RGB-D Images
Abstract:  We propose a method for instance-level segmentation that uses RGB-D data as input and provides detailed information about the location, geometry and number of individual objects in the scene. This level of understanding is fundamental for autonomous robots. It enables safe and robust decision-making under the large uncertainty of the real-world. In our model, we propose to use the first and second order moments of the object occupancy function to represent an object instance. We train an hourglass Deep Neural Network (DNN) where each pixel in the output votes for the 3D position of the corresponding object center and for the object's size and pose. The final instance segmentation is achieved through clustering in the space of moments. The object-centric training loss is defined on the output of the clustering. Our method outperforms the state-of-the-art instance segmentation method on our synthesized dataset. We show that our method generalizes well on real-world data achieving visually better segmentation results. 

Title: Environment-agnostic Multitask Learning for Natural Language Grounded Navigation
Abstract:  Recent research efforts enable study for natural language grounded navigation in photo-realistic environments, e.g., following natural language instructions or dialog. However, existing methods tend to overfit training data in seen environments and fail to generalize well in previously unseen environments. To close the gap between seen and unseen environments, we aim at learning a generalized navigation model from two novel perspectives: (1) we introduce a multitask navigation model that can be seamlessly trained on both Vision-Language Navigation (VLN) and Navigation from Dialog History (NDH) tasks, which benefits from richer natural language guidance and effectively transfers knowledge across tasks; (2) we propose to learn environment-agnostic representations for the navigation policy that are invariant among the environments seen during training, thus generalizing better on unseen environments. Extensive experiments show that environment-agnostic multitask learning significantly reduces the performance gap between seen and unseen environments, and the navigation agent trained so outperforms baselines on unseen environments by 16% (relative measure on success rate) on VLN and 120% (goal progress) on NDH. Our submission to the CVDN leaderboard establishes a new state-of-the-art for the NDH task on the holdout test set. Code is available at https://github.com/google-research/valan. 

Title: Robust Trajectory Forecasting for Multiple Intelligent Agents in Dynamic Scene
Abstract:  Trajectory forecasting, or trajectory prediction, of multiple interacting agents in dynamic scenes, is an important problem for many applications, such as robotic systems and autonomous driving. The problem is a great challenge because of the complex interactions among the agents and their interactions with the surrounding scenes. In this paper, we present a novel method for the robust trajectory forecasting of multiple intelligent agents in dynamic scenes. The proposed method consists of three major interrelated components: an interaction net for global spatiotemporal interactive feature extraction, an environment net for decoding dynamic scenes (i.e., the surrounding road topology of an agent), and a prediction net that combines the spatiotemporal feature, the scene feature, the past trajectories of agents and some random noise for the robust trajectory prediction of agents. Experiments on pedestrian-walking and vehicle-pedestrian heterogeneous datasets demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art prediction methods in terms of prediction accuracy. 

Title: PLOP: Probabilistic poLynomial Objects trajectory Planning for autonomous driving
Abstract:  To navigate safely in an urban environment, an autonomous vehicle (ego vehicle) needs to understand and anticipate its surroundings, in particular the behavior of other road users (neighbors). However, multiple choices are often acceptable (e.g. turn right or left, or different ways of avoiding an obstacle). We focus here on predicting multiple feasible future trajectories both for the ego vehicle and neighbors through a probabilistic framework. We use a conditional imitation learning algorithm, conditioned by a navigation command for the ego vehicle (e.g. "turn right"). It takes as input the ego car front camera image, a Lidar point cloud in a bird-eye view grid and present and past objects detections to output ego vehicle and neighbors possible trajectories but also semantic segmentation as an auxiliary loss. We evaluate our method on the publicly available dataset nuScenes, showing state-of-the-art performance and investigating the impact of our architecture choices. 

Title: Learning 3D Part Assembly from a Single Image
Abstract:  Autonomous assembly is a crucial capability for robots in many applications. For this task, several problems such as obstacle avoidance, motion planning, and actuator control have been extensively studied in robotics. However, when it comes to task specification, the space of possibilities remains underexplored. Towards this end, we introduce a novel problem, single-image-guided 3D part assembly, along with a learningbased solution. We study this problem in the setting of furniture assembly from a given complete set of parts and a single image depicting the entire assembled object. Multiple challenges exist in this setting, including handling ambiguity among parts (e.g., slats in a chair back and leg stretchers) and 3D pose prediction for parts and part subassemblies, whether visible or occluded. We address these issues by proposing a two-module pipeline that leverages strong 2D-3D correspondences and assembly-oriented graph message-passing to infer part relationships. In experiments with a PartNet-based synthetic benchmark, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework as compared with three baseline approaches. 

Title: Recurrent Neural Networks for Driver Activity Anticipation via Sensory-Fusion Architecture
Abstract:  Anticipating the future actions of a human is a widely studied problem in robotics that requires spatio-temporal reasoning. In this work we propose a deep learning approach for anticipation in sensory-rich robotics applications. We introduce a sensory-fusion architecture which jointly learns to anticipate and fuse information from multiple sensory streams. Our architecture consists of Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) that use Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) units to capture long temporal dependencies. We train our architecture in a sequence-to-sequence prediction manner, and it explicitly learns to predict the future given only a partial temporal context. We further introduce a novel loss layer for anticipation which prevents over-fitting and encourages early anticipation. We use our architecture to anticipate driving maneuvers several seconds before they happen on a natural driving data set of 1180 miles. The context for maneuver anticipation comes from multiple sensors installed on the vehicle. Our approach shows significant improvement over the state-of-the-art in maneuver anticipation by increasing the precision from 77.4% to 90.5% and recall from 71.2% to 87.4%. 

Title: Automatic Gesture Recognition in Robot-assisted Surgery with Reinforcement Learning and Tree Search
Abstract:  Automatic surgical gesture recognition is fundamental for improving intelligence in robot-assisted surgery, such as conducting complicated tasks of surgery surveillance and skill evaluation. However, current methods treat each frame individually and produce the outcomes without effective consideration on future information. In this paper, we propose a framework based on reinforcement learning and tree search for joint surgical gesture segmentation and classification. An agent is trained to segment and classify the surgical video in a human-like manner whose direct decisions are re-considered by tree search appropriately. Our proposed tree search algorithm unites the outputs from two designed neural networks, i.e., policy and value network. With the integration of complementary information from distinct models, our framework is able to achieve the better performance than baseline methods using either of the neural networks. For an overall evaluation, our developed approach consistently outperforms the existing methods on the suturing task of JIGSAWS dataset in terms of accuracy, edit score and F1 score. Our study highlights the utilization of tree search to refine actions in reinforcement learning framework for surgical robotic applications. 

Title: Vision-Based Autonomous Vehicle Control using the Two-Point Visual Driver Control Model
Abstract:  This work proposes a new self-driving framework that uses a human driver control model, whose feature-input values are extracted from images using deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs). The development of image processing techniques using CNNs along with accelerated computing hardware has recently enabled real-time detection of these feature-input values. The use of human driver models can lead to more "natural" driving behavior of self-driving vehicles. Specifically, we use the well-known two-point visual driver control model as the controller, and we use a top-down lane cost map CNN and the YOLOv2 CNN to extract feature-input values. This framework relies exclusively on inputs from low-cost sensors like a monocular camera and wheel speed sensors. We experimentally validate the proposed framework on an outdoor track using a 1/5th-scale autonomous vehicle platform. 

Title: Riemannian Motion Policy Fusion through Learnable Lyapunov Function Reshaping
Abstract:  RMPflow is a recently proposed policy-fusion framework based on differential geometry. While RMPflow has demonstrated promising performance, it requires the user to provide sensible subtask policies as Riemannian motion policies (RMPs: a motion policy and an importance matrix function), which can be a difficult design problem in its own right. We propose RMPfusion, a variation of RMPflow, to address this issue. RMPfusion supplements RMPflow with weight functions that can hierarchically reshape the Lyapunov functions of the subtask RMPs according to the current configuration of the robot and environment. This extra flexibility can remedy imperfect subtask RMPs provided by the user, improving the combined policy's performance. These weight functions can be learned by back-propagation. Moreover, we prove that, under mild restrictions on the weight functions, RMPfusion always yields a globally Lyapunov-stable motion policy. This implies that we can treat RMPfusion as a structured policy class in policy optimization that is guaranteed to generate stable policies, even during the immature phase of learning. We demonstrate these properties of RMPfusion in imitation learning experiments both in simulation and on a real-world robot. 

Title: A Single Multi-Task Deep Neural Network with Post-Processing for Object Detection with Reasoning and Robotic Grasp Detection
Abstract:  Recently, robotic grasp detection (GD) and object detection (OD) with reasoning have been investigated using deep neural networks (DNNs). There have been works to combine these multi-tasks using separate networks so that robots can deal with situations of grasping specific target objects in the cluttered, stacked, complex piles of novel objects from a single RGB-D camera. We propose a single multi-task DNN that yields the information on GD, OD and relationship reasoning among objects with a simple post-processing. Our proposed methods yielded state-of-the-art performance with the accuracy of 98.6% and 74.2% and the computation speed of 33 and 62 frame per second on VMRD and Cornell datasets, respectively. Our methods also yielded 95.3% grasp success rate for single novel object grasping with a 4-axis robot arm and 86.7% grasp success rate in cluttered novel objects with a Baxter robot. 

Title: Curious Meta-Controller: Adaptive Alternation between Model-Based and Model-Free Control in Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Recent success in deep reinforcement learning for continuous control has been dominated by model-free approaches which, unlike model-based approaches, do not suffer from representational limitations in making assumptions about the world dynamics and model errors inevitable in complex domains. However, they require a lot of experiences compared to model-based approaches that are typically more sample-efficient. We propose to combine the benefits of the two approaches by presenting an integrated approach called Curious Meta-Controller. Our approach alternates adaptively between model-based and model-free control using a curiosity feedback based on the learning progress of a neural model of the dynamics in a learned latent space. We demonstrate that our approach can significantly improve the sample efficiency and achieve near-optimal performance on learning robotic reaching and grasping tasks from raw-pixel input in both dense and sparse reward settings. 

Title: Self-supervised Deep Reinforcement Learning with Generalized Computation Graphs for Robot Navigation
Abstract:  Enabling robots to autonomously navigate complex environments is essential for real-world deployment. Prior methods approach this problem by having the robot maintain an internal map of the world, and then use a localization and planning method to navigate through the internal map. However, these approaches often include a variety of assumptions, are computationally intensive, and do not learn from failures. In contrast, learning-based methods improve as the robot acts in the environment, but are difficult to deploy in the real-world due to their high sample complexity. To address the need to learn complex policies with few samples, we propose a generalized computation graph that subsumes value-based model-free methods and model-based methods, with specific instantiations interpolating between model-free and model-based. We then instantiate this graph to form a navigation model that learns from raw images and is sample efficient. Our simulated car experiments explore the design decisions of our navigation model, and show our approach outperforms single-step and $N$-step double Q-learning. We also evaluate our approach on a real-world RC car and show it can learn to navigate through a complex indoor environment with a few hours of fully autonomous, self-supervised training. Videos of the experiments and code can be found at github.com/gkahn13/gcg 

Title: Online Vehicle Trajectory Prediction using Policy Anticipation Network and Optimization-based Context Reasoning
Abstract:  In this paper, we present an online two-level vehicle trajectory prediction framework for urban autonomous driving where there are complex contextual factors, such as lane geometries, road constructions, traffic regulations and moving agents. Our method combines high-level policy anticipation with low-level context reasoning. We leverage a long short-term memory (LSTM) network to anticipate the vehicle's driving policy (e.g., forward, yield, turn left, turn right, etc.) using its sequential history observations. The policy is then used to guide a low-level optimization-based context reasoning process. We show that it is essential to incorporate the prior policy anticipation due to the multimodal nature of the future trajectory. Moreover, contrary to existing regression-based trajectory prediction methods, our optimization-based reasoning process can cope with complex contextual factors. The final output of the two-level reasoning process is a continuous trajectory that automatically adapts to different traffic configurations and accurately predicts future vehicle motions. The performance of the proposed framework is analyzed and validated in an emerging autonomous driving simulation platform (CARLA). 

Title: Predicting Responses to a Robot's Future Motion using Generative Recurrent Neural Networks
Abstract:  Robotic navigation through crowds or herds requires the ability to both predict the future motion of nearby individuals and understand how these predictions might change in response to a robot's future action. State of the art trajectory prediction models using Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) do not currently account for a planned future action of a robot, and so cannot predict how an individual will move in response to a robot's planned path. We propose an approach that adapts RNNs to use a robot's next planned action as an input alongside the current position of nearby individuals. This allows the model to learn the response of individuals with regards to a robot's motion from real world observations. By linking a robot's actions to the response of those around it in training, we show that we are able to not only improve prediction accuracy in close range interactions, but also to predict the likely response of surrounding individuals to simulated actions. This allows the use of the model to simulate state transitions, without requiring any assumptions on agent interaction. We apply this model to varied datasets, including crowds of pedestrians interacting with vehicles and bicycles, and livestock interacting with a robotic vehicle. 

Title: A Probabilistic Framework for Imitating Human Race Driver Behavior
Abstract:  Understanding and modeling human driver behavior is crucial for advanced vehicle development. However, unique driving styles, inconsistent behavior, and complex decision processes render it a challenging task, and existing approaches often lack variability or robustness. To approach this problem, we propose Probabilistic Modeling of Driver behavior (ProMoD), a modular framework which splits the task of driver behavior modeling into multiple modules. A global target trajectory distribution is learned with Probabilistic Movement Primitives, clothoids are utilized for local path generation, and the corresponding choice of actions is performed by a neural network. Experiments in a simulated car racing setting show considerable advantages in imitation accuracy and robustness compared to other imitation learning algorithms. The modular architecture of the proposed framework facilitates straightforward extensibility in driving line adaptation and sequencing of multiple movement primitives for future research. 

Title: Understanding Multi-Modal Perception Using Behavioral Cloning for Peg-In-a-Hole Insertion Tasks
Abstract:  One of the main challenges in peg-in-a-hole (PiH) insertion tasks is in handling the uncertainty in the location of the target hole. In order to address it, high-dimensional sensor inputs from sensor modalities such as vision, force/torque sensing, and proprioception can be combined to learn control policies that are robust to this uncertainty in the target pose. Whereas deep learning has shown success in recognizing objects and making decisions with high-dimensional inputs, the learning procedure might damage the robot when applying directly trial- and-error algorithms on the real system. At the same time, learning from Demonstration (LfD) methods have been shown to achieve compelling performance in real robotic systems by leveraging demonstration data provided by experts. In this paper, we investigate the merits of multiple sensor modalities such as vision, force/torque sensors, and proprioception when combined to learn a controller for real world assembly operation tasks using LfD techniques. The study is limited to PiH insertions; we plan to extend the study to more experiments in the future. Additionally, we propose a multi-step-ahead loss function to improve the performance of the behavioral cloning method. Experimental results on a real manipulator support our findings, and show the effectiveness of the proposed loss function. 

Title: SuperDepth: Self-Supervised, Super-Resolved Monocular Depth Estimation
Abstract:  Recent techniques in self-supervised monocular depth estimation are approaching the performance of supervised methods, but operate in low resolution only. We show that high resolution is key towards high-fidelity self-supervised monocular depth prediction. Inspired by recent deep learning methods for Single-Image Super-Resolution, we propose a sub-pixel convolutional layer extension for depth super-resolution that accurately synthesizes high-resolution disparities from their corresponding low-resolution convolutional features. In addition, we introduce a differentiable flip-augmentation layer that accurately fuses predictions from the image and its horizontally flipped version, reducing the effect of left and right shadow regions generated in the disparity map due to occlusions. Both contributions provide significant performance gains over the state-of-the-art in self-supervised depth and pose estimation on the public KITTI benchmark. A video of our approach can be found at https://youtu.be/jKNgBeBMx0I. 

Title: Visual Diver Recognition for Underwater Human-Robot Collaboration
Abstract:  This paper presents an approach for autonomous underwater robots to visually detect and identify divers. The proposed approach enables an autonomous underwater robot to detect multiple divers in a visual scene and distinguish between them. Such methods are useful for robots to identify a human leader, for example, in multi-human/robot teams where only designated individuals are allowed to command or lean a team of robots. Initial diver identification is performed using the Faster R-CNN algorithm with a region proposal network which produces bounding boxes around the divers' locations. Subsequently, a suite of spatial and frequency domain descriptors are extracted from the bounding boxes to create a feature vector. A K-Means clustering algorithm, with k set to the number of detected bounding boxes, thereafter identifies the detected divers based on these feature vectors. We evaluate the performance of the proposed approach on video footage of divers swimming in front of a mobile robot and demonstrate its accuracy. 

Title: 360$^\circ$ Depth Estimation from Multiple Fisheye Images with Origami Crown Representation of Icosahedron
Abstract:  In this study, we present a method for all-around depth estimation from multiple omnidirectional images for indoor environments. In particular, we focus on plane-sweeping stereo as the method for depth estimation from the images. We propose a new icosahedron-based representation and ConvNets for omnidirectional images, which we name "CrownConv" because the representation resembles a crown made of origami. CrownConv can be applied to both fisheye images and equirectangular images to extract features. Furthermore, we propose icosahedron-based spherical sweeping for generating the cost volume on an icosahedron from the extracted features. The cost volume is regularized using the three-dimensional CrownConv, and the final depth is obtained by depth regression from the cost volume. Our proposed method is robust to camera alignments by using the extrinsic camera parameters; therefore, it can achieve precise depth estimation even when the camera alignment differs from that in the training dataset. We evaluate the proposed model on synthetic datasets and demonstrate its effectiveness. As our proposed method is computationally efficient, the depth is estimated from four fisheye images in less than a second using a laptop with a GPU. Therefore, it is suitable for real-world robotics applications. Our source code is available at https://github.com/matsuren/crownconv360depth. 

Title: How to Train Your Energy-Based Model for Regression
Abstract:  Energy-based models (EBMs) have become increasingly popular within computer vision in recent years. While they are commonly employed for generative image modeling, recent work has applied EBMs also for regression tasks, achieving state-of-the-art performance on object detection and visual tracking. Training EBMs is however known to be challenging. While a variety of different techniques have been explored for generative modeling, the application of EBMs to regression is not a well-studied problem. How EBMs should be trained for best possible regression performance is thus currently unclear. We therefore accept the task of providing the first detailed study of this problem. To that end, we propose a simple yet highly effective extension of noise contrastive estimation, and carefully compare its performance to six popular methods from literature on the tasks of 1D regression and object detection. The results of this comparison suggest that our training method should be considered the go-to approach. We also apply our method to the visual tracking task, achieving state-of-the-art performance on five datasets. Notably, our tracker achieves 63.7% AUC on LaSOT and 78.7% Success on TrackingNet. Code is available at https://github.com/fregu856/ebms_regression. 

Title: TactileSGNet: A Spiking Graph Neural Network for Event-based Tactile Object Recognition
Abstract:  Tactile perception is crucial for a variety of robot tasks including grasping and in-hand manipulation. New advances in flexible, event-driven, electronic skins may soon endow robots with touch perception capabilities similar to humans. These electronic skins respond asynchronously to changes (e.g., in pressure, temperature), and can be laid out irregularly on the robot's body or end-effector. However, these unique features may render current deep learning approaches such as convolutional feature extractors unsuitable for tactile learning. In this paper, we propose a novel spiking graph neural network for event-based tactile object recognition. To make use of local connectivity of taxels, we present several methods for organizing the tactile data in a graph structure. Based on the constructed graphs, we develop a spiking graph convolutional network. The event-driven nature of spiking neural network makes it arguably more suitable for processing the event-based data. Experimental results on two tactile datasets show that the proposed method outperforms other state-of-the-art spiking methods, achieving high accuracies of approximately 90\% when classifying a variety of different household objects. 

Title: Learning to Play Cup-and-Ball with Noisy Camera Observations
Abstract:  Playing the cup-and-ball game is an intriguing task for robotics research since it abstracts important problem characteristics including system nonlinearity, contact forces and precise positioning as terminal goal. In this paper, we present a learning model based control strategy for the cup-and-ball game, where a Universal Robots UR5e manipulator arm learns to catch a ball in one of the cups on a Kendama. Our control problem is divided into two sub-tasks, namely $(i)$ swinging the ball up in a constrained motion, and $(ii)$ catching the free-falling ball. The swing-up trajectory is computed offline, and applied in open-loop to the arm. Subsequently, a convex optimization problem is solved online during the ball's free-fall to control the manipulator and catch the ball. The controller utilizes noisy position feedback of the ball from an Intel RealSense D435 depth camera. We propose a novel iterative framework, where data is used to learn the support of the camera noise distribution iteratively in order to update the control policy. The probability of a catch with a fixed policy is computed empirically with a user specified number of roll-outs. Our design guarantees that probability of the catch increases in the limit, as the learned support nears the true support of the camera noise distribution. High-fidelity Mujoco simulations and preliminary experimental results support our theoretical analysis. 

Title: Generating Automatic Curricula via Self-Supervised Active Domain Randomization
Abstract:  Goal-directed Reinforcement Learning (RL) traditionally considers an agent interacting with an environment, prescribing a real-valued reward to an agent proportional to the completion of some goal. Goal-directed RL has seen large gains in sample efficiency, due to the ease of reusing or generating new experience by proposing goals. In this work, we build on the framework of self-play, allowing an agent to interact with itself in order to make progress on some unknown task. We use Active Domain Randomization and self-play to create a novel, coupled environment-goal curriculum, where agents learn through progressively more difficult tasks and environment variations. Our method, Self-Supervised Active Domain Randomization (SS-ADR), generates a growing curriculum, encouraging the agent to try tasks that are just outside of its current capabilities, while building a domain-randomization curriculum that enables state-of-the-art results on various sim2real transfer tasks. Our results show that a curriculum of co-evolving the environment difficulty along with the difficulty of goals set in each environment provides practical benefits in the goal-directed tasks tested. 

Title: Towards Learning to Detect and Predict Contact Events on Vision-based Tactile Sensors
Abstract:  In essence, successful grasp boils down to correct responses to multiple contact events between fingertips and objects. In most scenarios, tactile sensing is adequate to distinguish contact events. Due to the nature of high dimensionality of tactile information, classifying spatiotemporal tactile signals using conventional model-based methods is difficult. In this work, we propose to predict and classify tactile signal using deep learning methods, seeking to enhance the adaptability of the robotic grasp system to external event changes that may lead to grasping failure. We develop a deep learning framework and collect 6650 tactile image sequences with a vision-based tactile sensor, and the neural network is integrated into a contact-event-based robotic grasping system. In grasping experiments, we achieved 52% increase in terms of object lifting success rate with contact detection, significantly higher robustness under unexpected loads with slip prediction compared with open-loop grasps, demonstrating that integration of the proposed framework into robotic grasping system substantially improves picking success rate and capability to withstand external disturbances. 

Title: Design and implementation of image processing system for Lumen social robot-humanoid as an exhibition guide for Electrical Engineering Days 2015
Abstract:  Lumen Social Robot is a humanoid robot development with the purpose that it could be a good friend to all people. In this year, the Lumen Social Robot is being developed into a guide in the exhibition and in the seminar of the Final Exam of undergraduate and graduate students in Electrical Engineering ITB, named Electrical Engineering Days 2015. In order to be the guide in that occasion, Lumen is supported by several things. They are Nao robot components, servers, and multiple processor systems. The image processing system is a processing application system that allows Lumen to recognize and determine an object from the image taken from the camera eye. The image processing system is provided with four modules. They are face detection module to detect a person's face, face recognition module to recognize a person's face, face tracking module to follow a person's face, and human detection module to detect humans based on the upper parts of person's body. Face detection module and human detection module are implemented by using the library harcascade.xml on EMGU CV. Face recognition module is implemented by adding the database for the face that has been detected and store it in that database. Face tracking module is implemented by using the Smooth Gaussian filter to the image. ----- Lumen Sosial Robot merupakan sebuah pengembangan robot humanoid agar dapat menjadi teman bagi banyak orang. Sistem pengolahan citra merupakan sistem aplikasi pengolah yang bertujuan Lumen dapat mengenali dan mengetahui suatu objek pada citra yang diambil dari camera mata Lumen. System pengolahan citra dilengkapi dengan empat buah modul, yaitu modul face detection untuk mendeteksi wajah seseorang, modul face recognition untuk mengenali wajah orang tersebut, modul face tracking untuk mengikuti wajah seseorang, dan modul human detection untuk mendeteksi manusia berdasarkan bagian tubuh atas orang 

Title: Structured Neural Network Dynamics for Model-based Control
Abstract:  We present a structured neural network architecture that is inspired by linear time-varying dynamical systems. The network is designed to mimic the properties of linear dynamical systems which makes analysis and control simple. The architecture facilitates the integration of learned system models with gradient-based model predictive control algorithms, and removes the requirement of computing potentially costly derivatives online. We demonstrate the efficacy of this modeling technique in computing autonomous control policies through evaluation in a variety of standard continuous control domains. 

Title: VLASE: Vehicle Localization by Aggregating Semantic Edges
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose VLASE, a framework to use semantic edge features from images to achieve on-road localization. Semantic edge features denote edge contours that separate pairs of distinct objects such as building-sky, road- sidewalk, and building-ground. While prior work has shown promising results by utilizing the boundary between prominent classes such as sky and building using skylines, we generalize this approach to consider semantic edge features that arise from 19 different classes. Our localization algorithm is simple, yet very powerful. We extract semantic edge features using a recently introduced CASENet architecture and utilize VLAD framework to perform image retrieval. Our experiments show that we achieve improvement over some of the state-of-the-art localization algorithms such as SIFT-VLAD and its deep variant NetVLAD. We use ablation study to study the importance of different semantic classes and show that our unified approach achieves better performance compared to individual prominent features such as skylines. 

Title: PointTrackNet: An End-to-End Network For 3-D Object Detection and Tracking From Point Clouds
Abstract:  Recent machine learning-based multi-object tracking (MOT) frameworks are becoming popular for 3-D point clouds. Most traditional tracking approaches use filters (e.g., Kalman filter or particle filter) to predict object locations in a time sequence, however, they are vulnerable to extreme motion conditions, such as sudden braking and turning. In this letter, we propose PointTrackNet, an end-to-end 3-D object detection and tracking network, to generate foreground masks, 3-D bounding boxes, and point-wise tracking association displacements for each detected object. The network merely takes as input two adjacent point-cloud frames. Experimental results on the KITTI tracking dataset show competitive results over the state-of-the-arts, especially in the irregularly and rapidly changing scenarios. 

Title: Monocular Visual Odometry for an Unmanned Sea-Surface Vehicle
Abstract:  We tackle the problem of localizing an autonomous sea-surface vehicle in river estuarine areas using monocular camera and angular velocity input from an inertial sensor. Our method is challenged by two prominent drawbacks associated with the environment, which are typically not present in standard visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) applications on land (or air): a) Scene depth varies significantly (from a few meters to several kilometers) and, b) In conjunction to the latter, there exists no ground plane to provide features with enough disparity based on which to reliably detect motion. To that end, we use the IMU orientation feedback in order to re-cast the problem of visual localization without the mapping component, although the map can be implicitly obtained from the camera pose estimates. We find that our method produces reliable odometry estimates for trajectories several hundred meters long in the water. To compare the visual odometry estimates with GPS based ground truth, we interpolate the trajectory with splines on a common parameter and obtain position error in meters recovering an optimal affine transformation between the two splines. 

Title: Grasping Detection Network with Uncertainty Estimation for Confidence-Driven Semi-Supervised Domain Adaptation
Abstract:  Data-efficient domain adaptation with only a few labelled data is desired for many robotic applications, e.g., in grasping detection, the inference skill learned from a grasping dataset is not universal enough to directly apply on various other daily/industrial applications. This paper presents an approach enabling the easy domain adaptation through a novel grasping detection network with confidence-driven semi-supervised learning, where these two components deeply interact with each other. The proposed grasping detection network specially provides a prediction uncertainty estimation mechanism by leveraging on Feature Pyramid Network (FPN), and the mean-teacher semi-supervised learning utilizes such uncertainty information to emphasizing the consistency loss only for those unlabelled data with high confidence, which we referred it as the confidence-driven mean teacher. This approach largely prevents the student model to learn the incorrect/harmful information from the consistency loss, which speeds up the learning progress and improves the model accuracy. Our results show that the proposed network can achieve high success rate on the Cornell grasping dataset, and for domain adaptation with very limited data, the confidence-driven mean teacher outperforms the original mean teacher and direct training by more than 10% in evaluation loss especially for avoiding the overfitting and model diverging. 

Title: Zero Shot Learning on Simulated Robots
Abstract:  In this work we present a method for leveraging data from one source to learn how to do multiple new tasks. Task transfer is achieved using a self-model that encapsulates the dynamics of a system and serves as an environment for reinforcement learning. To study this approach, we train a self-models on various robot morphologies, using randomly sampled actions. Using a self-model, an initial state and corresponding actions, we can predict the next state. This predictive self-model is then used by a standard reinforcement learning algorithm to accomplish tasks without ever seeing a state from the "real" environment. These trained policies allow the robots to successfully achieve their goals in the "real" environment. We demonstrate that not only is training on the self-model far more data efficient than learning even a single task, but also that it allows for learning new tasks without necessitating any additional data collection, essentially allowing zero-shot learning of new tasks. 

Title: Sample Efficient Learning of Path Following and Obstacle Avoidance Behavior for Quadrotors
Abstract:  In this paper we propose an algorithm for the training of neural network control policies for quadrotors. The learned control policy computes control commands directly from sensor inputs and is hence computationally efficient. An imitation learning algorithm produces a policy that reproduces the behavior of a path following control algorithm with collision avoidance. Due to the generalization ability of neural networks, the resulting policy performs local collision avoidance of unseen obstacles while following a global reference path. The algorithm uses a time-free model predictive path-following controller as a supervisor. The controller generates demonstrations by following few example paths. This enables an easy to implement learning algorithm that is robust to errors of the model used in the model predictive controller. The policy is trained on the real quadrotor, which requires collision-free exploration around the example path. An adapted version of the supervisor is used to enable exploration. Thus, the policy can be trained from a relatively small number of examples on the real quadrotor, making the training sample efficient. 

Title: Exploration of Reinforcement Learning for Event Camera using Car-like Robots
Abstract:  We demonstrate the first reinforcement-learning application for robots equipped with an event camera. Because of the considerably lower latency of the event camera, it is possible to achieve much faster control of robots compared with the existing vision-based reinforcement-learning applications using standard cameras. To handle a stream of events for reinforcement learning, we introduced an image-like feature and demonstrated the feasibility of training an agent in a simulator for two tasks: fast collision avoidance and obstacle tracking. Finally, we set up a robot with an event camera in the real world and then transferred the agent trained in the simulator, resulting in successful fast avoidance of randomly thrown objects. Incorporating event camera into reinforcement learning opens new possibilities for various robotics applications that require swift control, such as autonomous vehicles and drones, through end-to-end learning approaches. 

Title: Inverse Reinforcement Learning via Nonparametric Spatio-Temporal Subgoal Modeling
Abstract:  Advances in the field of inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) have led to sophisticated inference frameworks that relax the original modeling assumption of observing an agent behavior that reflects only a single intention. Instead of learning a global behavioral model, recent IRL methods divide the demonstration data into parts, to account for the fact that different trajectories may correspond to different intentions, e.g., because they were generated by different domain experts. In this work, we go one step further: using the intuitive concept of subgoals, we build upon the premise that even a single trajectory can be explained more efficiently locally within a certain context than globally, enabling a more compact representation of the observed behavior. Based on this assumption, we build an implicit intentional model of the agent's goals to forecast its behavior in unobserved situations. The result is an integrated Bayesian prediction framework that significantly outperforms existing IRL solutions and provides smooth policy estimates consistent with the expert's plan. Most notably, our framework naturally handles situations where the intentions of the agent change over time and classical IRL algorithms fail. In addition, due to its probabilistic nature, the model can be straightforwardly applied in active learning scenarios to guide the demonstration process of the expert. 

Title: Following High-level Navigation Instructions on a Simulated Quadcopter with Imitation Learning
Abstract:  We introduce a method for following high-level navigation instructions by mapping directly from images, instructions and pose estimates to continuous low-level velocity commands for real-time control. The Grounded Semantic Mapping Network (GSMN) is a fully-differentiable neural network architecture that builds an explicit semantic map in the world reference frame by incorporating a pinhole camera projection model within the network. The information stored in the map is learned from experience, while the local-to-world transformation is computed explicitly. We train the model using DAggerFM, a modified variant of DAgger that trades tabular convergence guarantees for improved training speed and memory use. We test GSMN in virtual environments on a realistic quadcopter simulator and show that incorporating an explicit mapping and grounding modules allows GSMN to outperform strong neural baselines and almost reach an expert policy performance. Finally, we analyze the learned map representations and show that using an explicit map leads to an interpretable instruction-following model. 

Title: Trajectory Optimization for Unknown Constrained Systems using Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a reinforcement learning-based algorithm for trajectory optimization for constrained dynamical systems. This problem is motivated by the fact that for most robotic systems, the dynamics may not always be known. Generating smooth, dynamically feasible trajectories could be difficult for such systems. Using sampling-based algorithms for motion planning may result in trajectories that are prone to undesirable control jumps. However, they can usually provide a good reference trajectory which a model-free reinforcement learning algorithm can then exploit by limiting the search domain and quickly finding a dynamically smooth trajectory. We use this idea to train a reinforcement learning agent to learn a dynamically smooth trajectory in a curriculum learning setting. Furthermore, for generalization, we parameterize the policies with goal locations, so that the agent can be trained for multiple goals simultaneously. We show result in both simulated environments as well as real experiments, for a $6$-DoF manipulator arm operated in position-controlled mode to validate the proposed idea. We compare the proposed ideas against a PID controller which is used to track a designed trajectory in configuration space. Our experiments show that our RL agent trained with a reference path outperformed a model-free PID controller of the type commonly used on many robotic platforms for trajectory tracking. 

Title: Deep Forward and Inverse Perceptual Models for Tracking and Prediction
Abstract:  We consider the problems of learning forward models that map state to high-dimensional images and inverse models that map high-dimensional images to state in robotics. Specifically, we present a perceptual model for generating video frames from state with deep networks, and provide a framework for its use in tracking and prediction tasks. We show that our proposed model greatly outperforms standard deconvolutional methods and GANs for image generation, producing clear, photo-realistic images. We also develop a convolutional neural network model for state estimation and compare the result to an Extended Kalman Filter to estimate robot trajectories. We validate all models on a real robotic system. 

Title: OffWorld Gym: open-access physical robotics environment for real-world reinforcement learning benchmark and research
Abstract:  Success stories of applied machine learning can be traced back to the datasets and environments that were put forward as challenges for the community. The challenge that the community sets as a benchmark is usually the challenge that the community eventually solves. The ultimate challenge of reinforcement learning research is to train real agents to operate in the real environment, but until now there has not been a common real-world RL benchmark. In this work, we present a prototype real-world environment from OffWorld Gym -- a collection of real-world environments for reinforcement learning in robotics with free public remote access. Close integration into existing ecosystem allows the community to start using OffWorld Gym without any prior experience in robotics and takes away the burden of managing a physical robotics system, abstracting it under a familiar API. We introduce a navigation task, where a robot has to reach a visual beacon on an uneven terrain using only the camera input and provide baseline results in both the real environment and the simulated replica. To start training, visit https://gym.offworld.ai 

Title: TrackingNet: A Large-Scale Dataset and Benchmark for Object Tracking in the Wild
Abstract:  Despite the numerous developments in object tracking, further development of current tracking algorithms is limited by small and mostly saturated datasets. As a matter of fact, data-hungry trackers based on deep-learning currently rely on object detection datasets due to the scarcity of dedicated large-scale tracking datasets. In this work, we present TrackingNet, the first large-scale dataset and benchmark for object tracking in the wild. We provide more than 30K videos with more than 14 million dense bounding box annotations. Our dataset covers a wide selection of object classes in broad and diverse context. By releasing such a large-scale dataset, we expect deep trackers to further improve and generalize. In addition, we introduce a new benchmark composed of 500 novel videos, modeled with a distribution similar to our training dataset. By sequestering the annotation of the test set and providing an online evaluation server, we provide a fair benchmark for future development of object trackers. Deep trackers fine-tuned on a fraction of our dataset improve their performance by up to 1.6% on OTB100 and up to 1.7% on TrackingNet Test. We provide an extensive benchmark on TrackingNet by evaluating more than 20 trackers. Our results suggest that object tracking in the wild is far from being solved. 

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning for Time Optimal Velocity Control using Prior Knowledge
Abstract:  Autonomous navigation has recently gained great interest in the field of reinforcement learning. However, little attention was given to the time optimal velocity control problem, i.e. controlling a vehicle such that it travels at the maximal speed without becoming dynamically unstable (roll-over or sliding). Time optimal velocity control can be solved numerically using existing methods that are based on optimal control and vehicle dynamics. In this paper, we use deep reinforcement learning to generate the time optimal velocity control. Furthermore, we use the numerical solution to further improve the performance of the reinforcement learner. It is shown that the reinforcement learner outperforms the numerically derived solution, and that the hybrid approach (combining learning with the numerical solution) speeds up the training process. 

Title: Real-Time Freespace Segmentation on Autonomous Robots for Detection of Obstacles and Drop-Offs
Abstract:  Mobile robots navigating in indoor and outdoor environments must be able to identify and avoid unsafe terrain. Although a significant amount of work has been done on the detection of standing obstacles (solid obstructions), not much work has been done on the detection of negative obstacles (e.g. dropoffs, ledges, downward stairs). We propose a method of terrain safety segmentation using deep convolutional networks. Our custom semantic segmentation architecture uses a single camera as input and creates a freespace map distinguishing safe terrain and obstacles. We then show how this freespace map can be used for real-time navigation on an indoor robot. The results show that our system generalizes well, is suitable for real-time operation, and runs at around 55 fps on a small indoor robot powered by a low-power embedded GPU. 

Title: A Linearly Constrained Nonparametric Framework for Imitation Learning
Abstract:  In recent years, a myriad of advanced results have been reported in the community of imitation learning, ranging from parametric to non-parametric, probabilistic to non-probabilistic and Bayesian to frequentist approaches. Meanwhile, ample applications (e.g., grasping tasks and human-robot collaborations) further show the applicability of imitation learning in a wide range of domains. While numerous literature is dedicated to the learning of human skills in unconstrained environment, the problem of learning constrained motor skills, however, has not received equal attention yet. In fact, constrained skills exist widely in robotic systems. For instance, when a robot is demanded to write letters on a board, its end-effector trajectory must comply with the plane constraint from the board. In this paper, we aim to tackle the problem of imitation learning with linear constraints. Specifically, we propose to exploit the probabilistic properties of multiple demonstrations, and subsequently incorporate them into a linearly constrained optimization problem, which finally leads to a non-parametric solution. In addition, a connection between our framework and the classical model predictive control is provided. Several examples including simulated writing and locomotion tasks are presented to show the effectiveness of our framework. 

Title: Heteroscedastic Uncertainty for Robust Generative Latent Dynamics
Abstract:  Learning or identifying dynamics from a sequence of high-dimensional observations is a difficult challenge in many domains, including reinforcement learning and control. The problem has recently been studied from a generative perspective through latent dynamics: high-dimensional observations are embedded into a lower-dimensional space in which the dynamics can be learned. Despite some successes, latent dynamics models have not yet been applied to real-world robotic systems where learned representations must be robust to a variety of perceptual confounds and noise sources not seen during training. In this paper, we present a method to jointly learn a latent state representation and the associated dynamics that is amenable for long-term planning and closed-loop control under perceptually difficult conditions. As our main contribution, we describe how our representation is able to capture a notion of heteroscedastic or input-specific uncertainty at test time by detecting novel or out-of-distribution (OOD) inputs. We present results from prediction and control experiments on two image-based tasks: a simulated pendulum balancing task and a real-world robotic manipulator reaching task. We demonstrate that our model produces significantly more accurate predictions and exhibits improved control performance, compared to a model that assumes homoscedastic uncertainty only, in the presence of varying degrees of input degradation. 

Title: Reinforced Cross-Modal Matching and Self-Supervised Imitation Learning for Vision-Language Navigation
Abstract:  Vision-language navigation (VLN) is the task of navigating an embodied agent to carry out natural language instructions inside real 3D environments. In this paper, we study how to address three critical challenges for this task: the cross-modal grounding, the ill-posed feedback, and the generalization problems. First, we propose a novel Reinforced Cross-Modal Matching (RCM) approach that enforces cross-modal grounding both locally and globally via reinforcement learning (RL). Particularly, a matching critic is used to provide an intrinsic reward to encourage global matching between instructions and trajectories, and a reasoning navigator is employed to perform cross-modal grounding in the local visual scene. Evaluation on a VLN benchmark dataset shows that our RCM model significantly outperforms previous methods by 10% on SPL and achieves the new state-of-the-art performance. To improve the generalizability of the learned policy, we further introduce a Self-Supervised Imitation Learning (SIL) method to explore unseen environments by imitating its own past, good decisions. We demonstrate that SIL can approximate a better and more efficient policy, which tremendously minimizes the success rate performance gap between seen and unseen environments (from 30.7% to 11.7%). 

Title: Dynamic Hilbert Maps: Real-Time Occupancy Predictions in Changing Environment
Abstract:  This paper addresses the problem of learning instantaneous occupancy levels of dynamic environments and predicting future occupancy levels. Due to the complexity of most real-world environments, such as urban streets or crowded areas, the efficient and robust incorporation of temporal dependencies into otherwise static occupancy models remains a challenge. We propose a method to capture the spatial uncertainty of moving objects and incorporate this uncertainty information into a continuous occupancy map represented in a rich high-dimensional feature space. Experiments performed using LIDAR data verified the real-time performance of the algorithm. 

Title: Incremental Semantic Mapping with Unsupervised On-line Learning
Abstract:  This paper introduces an incremental semantic mapping approach, with on-line unsupervised learning, based on Self-Organizing Maps (SOM) for robotic agents. The method includes a mapping module, which incrementally creates a topological map of the environment, enriched with objects recognized around each topological node, and a module of places categorization, endowed with an incremental unsupervised learning SOM with on-line training. The proposed approach was tested in experiments with real-world data, in which it demonstrates promising capabilities of incremental acquisition of topological maps enriched with semantic information, and for clustering together similar places based on this information. The approach was also able to continue learning from newly visited environments without degrading the information previously learned. 

Title: Manipulation Motion Taxonomy and Coding for Robots
Abstract:  This paper introduces a taxonomy of manipulations as seen especially in cooking for 1) grouping manipulations from the robotics point of view, 2) consolidating aliases and removing ambiguity for motion types, and 3) provide a path to transferring learned manipulations to new unlearned manipulations. Using instructional videos as a reference, we selected a list of common manipulation motions seen in cooking activities grouped into similar motions based on several trajectory and contact attributes. Manipulation codes are then developed based on the taxonomy attributes to represent the manipulation motions. The manipulation taxonomy is then used for comparing motion data in the Daily Interactive Manipulation (DIM) data set to reveal their motion similarities. 

Title: Active Markov Information-Theoretic Path Planning for Robotic Environmental Sensing
Abstract:  Recent research in multi-robot exploration and mapping has focused on sampling environmental fields, which are typically modeled using the Gaussian process (GP). Existing information-theoretic exploration strategies for learning GP-based environmental field maps adopt the non-Markovian problem structure and consequently scale poorly with the length of history of observations. Hence, it becomes computationally impractical to use these strategies for in situ, real-time active sampling. To ease this computational burden, this paper presents a Markov-based approach to efficient information-theoretic path planning for active sampling of GP-based fields. We analyze the time complexity of solving the Markov-based path planning problem, and demonstrate analytically that it scales better than that of deriving the non-Markovian strategies with increasing length of planning horizon. For a class of exploration tasks called the transect sampling task, we provide theoretical guarantees on the active sampling performance of our Markov-based policy, from which ideal environmental field conditions and sampling task settings can be established to limit its performance degradation due to violation of the Markov assumption. Empirical evaluation on real-world temperature and plankton density field data shows that our Markov-based policy can generally achieve active sampling performance comparable to that of the widely-used non-Markovian greedy policies under less favorable realistic field conditions and task settings while enjoying significant computational gain over them. 

Title: UnRectDepthNet: Self-Supervised Monocular Depth Estimation using a Generic Framework for Handling Common Camera Distortion Models
Abstract:  In classical computer vision, rectification is an integral part of multi-view depth estimation. It typically includes epipolar rectification and lens distortion correction. This process simplifies the depth estimation significantly, and thus it has been adopted in CNN approaches. However, rectification has several side effects, including a reduced field of view (FOV), resampling distortion, and sensitivity to calibration errors. The effects are particularly pronounced in case of significant distortion (e.g., wide-angle fisheye cameras). In this paper, we propose a generic scale-aware self-supervised pipeline for estimating depth, euclidean distance, and visual odometry from unrectified monocular videos. We demonstrate a similar level of precision on the unrectified KITTI dataset with barrel distortion comparable to the rectified KITTI dataset. The intuition being that the rectification step can be implicitly absorbed within the CNN model, which learns the distortion model without increasing complexity. Our approach does not suffer from a reduced field of view and avoids computational costs for rectification at inference time. To further illustrate the general applicability of the proposed framework, we apply it to wide-angle fisheye cameras with 190$^\circ$ horizontal field of view. The training framework UnRectDepthNet takes in the camera distortion model as an argument and adapts projection and unprojection functions accordingly. The proposed algorithm is evaluated further on the KITTI rectified dataset, and we achieve state-of-the-art results that improve upon our previous work FisheyeDistanceNet. Qualitative results on a distorted test scene video sequence indicate excellent performance https://youtu.be/K6pbx3bU4Ss. 

Title: Convex Relaxations for Pose Graph Optimization with Outliers
Abstract:  Pose Graph Optimization involves the estimation of a set of poses from pairwise measurements and provides a formalization for many problems arising in mobile robotics and geometric computer vision. In this paper, we consider the case in which a subset of the measurements fed to pose graph optimization is spurious. Our first contribution is to develop robust estimators that can cope with heavy-tailed measurement noise, hence increasing robustness to the presence of outliers. Since the resulting estimators require solving nonconvex optimization problems, we further develop convex relaxations that approximately solve those problems via semidefinite programming. We then provide conditions under which the proposed relaxations are exact. Contrarily to existing approaches, our convex relaxations do not rely on the availability of an initial guess for the unknown poses, hence they are more suitable for setups in which such guess is not available (e.g., multi-robot localization, recovery after localization failure). We tested the proposed techniques in extensive simulations, and we show that some of the proposed relaxations are indeed tight (i.e., they solve the original nonconvex problem 10 exactly) and ensure accurate estimation in the face of a large number of outliers. 

Title: Local Supports Global: Deep Camera Relocalization with Sequence Enhancement
Abstract:  We propose to leverage the local information in image sequences to support global camera relocalization. In contrast to previous methods that regress global poses from single images, we exploit the spatial-temporal consistency in sequential images to alleviate uncertainty due to visual ambiguities by incorporating a visual odometry (VO) component. Specifically, we introduce two effective steps called content-augmented pose estimation and motion-based refinement. The content-augmentation step focuses on alleviating the uncertainty of pose estimation by augmenting the observation based on the co-visibility in local maps built by the VO stream. Besides, the motion-based refinement is formulated as a pose graph, where the camera poses are further optimized by adopting relative poses provided by the VO component as additional motion constraints. Thus, the global consistency can be guaranteed. Experiments on the public indoor 7-Scenes and outdoor Oxford RobotCar benchmark datasets demonstrate that benefited from local information inherent in the sequence, our approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods, especially in some challenging cases, e.g., insufficient texture, highly repetitive textures, similar appearances, and over-exposure. 

Title: Fast Optical Flow using Dense Inverse Search
Abstract:  Most recent works in optical flow extraction focus on the accuracy and neglect the time complexity. However, in real-life visual applications, such as tracking, activity detection and recognition, the time complexity is critical. We propose a solution with very low time complexity and competitive accuracy for the computation of dense optical flow. It consists of three parts: 1) inverse search for patch correspondences; 2) dense displacement field creation through patch aggregation along multiple scales; 3) variational refinement. At the core of our Dense Inverse Search-based method (DIS) is the efficient search of correspondences inspired by the inverse compositional image alignment proposed by Baker and Matthews in 2001. DIS is competitive on standard optical flow benchmarks with large displacements. DIS runs at 300Hz up to 600Hz on a single CPU core, reaching the temporal resolution of human's biological vision system. It is order(s) of magnitude faster than state-of-the-art methods in the same range of accuracy, making DIS ideal for visual applications. 

Title: Robust Gesture-Based Communication for Underwater Human-Robot Interaction in the context of Search and Rescue Diver Missions
Abstract:  We propose a robust gesture-based communication pipeline for divers to instruct an Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) to assist them in performing high-risk tasks and helping in case of emergency. A gesture communication language (CADDIAN) is developed, based on consolidated and standardized diver gestures, including an alphabet, syntax and semantics, ensuring a logical consistency. A hierarchical classification approach is introduced for hand gesture recognition based on stereo imagery and multi-descriptor aggregation to specifically cope with underwater image artifacts, e.g. light backscatter or color attenuation. Once the classification task is finished, a syntax check is performed to filter out invalid command sequences sent by the diver or generated by errors in the classifier. Throughout this process, the diver receives constant feedback from an underwater tablet to acknowledge or abort the mission at any time. The objective is to prevent the AUV from executing unnecessary, infeasible or potentially harmful motions. Experimental results under different environmental conditions in archaeological exploration and bridge inspection applications show that the system performs well in the field. 

Title: Model Adaption Object Detection System for Robot
Abstract:  Object detection for robot guidance is a crucial mission for autonomous robots, which has provoked extensive attention for researchers. However, the changing view of robot movement and limited available data hinder the research in this area. To address these matters, we proposed a new vision system for robots, the model adaptation object detection system. Instead of using a single one to solve problems, We made use of different object detection neural networks to guide the robot in accordance with various situations, with the help of a meta neural network to allocate the object detection neural networks. Furthermore, taking advantage of transfer learning technology and depthwise separable convolutions, our model is easy to train and can address small dataset problems. 

Title: Hybrid Zero Dynamics Inspired Feedback Control Policy Design for 3D Bipedal Locomotion using Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel model-free reinforcement learning (RL) framework to design feedback control policies for 3D bipedal walking. Existing RL algorithms are often trained in an end-to-end manner or rely on prior knowledge of some reference joint trajectories. Different from these studies, we propose a novel policy structure that appropriately incorporates physical insights gained from the hybrid nature of the walking dynamics and the well-established hybrid zero dynamics approach for 3D bipedal walking. As a result, the overall RL framework has several key advantages, including lightweight network structure, short training time, and less dependence on prior knowledge. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method on Cassie, a challenging 3D bipedal robot. The proposed solution produces stable limit walking cycles that can track various walking speed in different directions. Surprisingly, without specifically trained with disturbances to achieve robustness, it also performs robustly against various adversarial forces applied to the torso towards both the forward and the backward directions. 

Title: Unifying Map and Landmark Based Representations for Visual Navigation
Abstract:  This works presents a formulation for visual navigation that unifies map based spatial reasoning and path planning, with landmark based robust plan execution in noisy environments. Our proposed formulation is learned from data and is thus able to leverage statistical regularities of the world. This allows it to efficiently navigate in novel environments given only a sparse set of registered images as input for building representations for space. Our formulation is based on three key ideas: a learned path planner that outputs path plans to reach the goal, a feature synthesis engine that predicts features for locations along the planned path, and a learned goal-driven closed loop controller that can follow plans given these synthesized features. We test our approach for goal-driven navigation in simulated real world environments and report performance gains over competitive baseline approaches. 

Title: A*3D Dataset: Towards Autonomous Driving in Challenging Environments
Abstract:  With the increasing global popularity of self-driving cars, there is an immediate need for challenging real-world datasets for benchmarking and training various computer vision tasks such as 3D object detection. Existing datasets either represent simple scenarios or provide only day-time data. In this paper, we introduce a new challenging A*3D dataset which consists of RGB images and LiDAR data with significant diversity of scene, time, and weather. The dataset consists of high-density images ($\approx~10$ times more than the pioneering KITTI dataset), heavy occlusions, a large number of night-time frames ($\approx~3$ times the nuScenes dataset), addressing the gaps in the existing datasets to push the boundaries of tasks in autonomous driving research to more challenging highly diverse environments. The dataset contains $39\text{K}$ frames, $7$ classes, and $230\text{K}$ 3D object annotations. An extensive 3D object detection benchmark evaluation on the A*3D dataset for various attributes such as high density, day-time/night-time, gives interesting insights into the advantages and limitations of training and testing 3D object detection in real-world setting. 

Title: Imitation Learning from Observations by Minimizing Inverse Dynamics Disagreement
Abstract:  This paper studies Learning from Observations (LfO) for imitation learning with access to state-only demonstrations. In contrast to Learning from Demonstration (LfD) that involves both action and state supervision, LfO is more practical in leveraging previously inapplicable resources (e.g. videos), yet more challenging due to the incomplete expert guidance. In this paper, we investigate LfO and its difference with LfD in both theoretical and practical perspectives. We first prove that the gap between LfD and LfO actually lies in the disagreement of inverse dynamics models between the imitator and the expert, if following the modeling approach of GAIL. More importantly, the upper bound of this gap is revealed by a negative causal entropy which can be minimized in a model-free way. We term our method as Inverse-Dynamics-Disagreement-Minimization (IDDM) which enhances the conventional LfO method through further bridging the gap to LfD. Considerable empirical results on challenging benchmarks indicate that our method attains consistent improvements over other LfO counterparts. 

Title: Learning Dexterous Manipulation Policies from Experience and Imitation
Abstract:  We explore learning-based approaches for feedback control of a dexterous five-finger hand performing non-prehensile manipulation. First, we learn local controllers that are able to perform the task starting at a predefined initial state. These controllers are constructed using trajectory optimization with respect to locally-linear time-varying models learned directly from sensor data. In some cases, we initialize the optimizer with human demonstrations collected via teleoperation in a virtual environment. We demonstrate that such controllers can perform the task robustly, both in simulation and on the physical platform, for a limited range of initial conditions around the trained starting state. We then consider two interpolation methods for generalizing to a wider range of initial conditions: deep learning, and nearest neighbors. We find that nearest neighbors achieve higher performance. Nevertheless, the neural network has its advantages: it uses only tactile and proprioceptive feedback but no visual feedback about the object (i.e. it performs the task blind) and learns a time-invariant policy. In contrast, the nearest neighbors method switches between time-varying local controllers based on the proximity of initial object states sensed via motion capture. While both generalization methods leave room for improvement, our work shows that (i) local trajectory-based controllers for complex non-prehensile manipulation tasks can be constructed from surprisingly small amounts of training data, and (ii) collections of such controllers can be interpolated to form more global controllers. Results are summarized in the supplementary video: https://youtu.be/E0wmO6deqjo 

Title: Object-based World Modeling in Semi-Static Environments with Dependent Dirichlet-Process Mixtures
Abstract:  To accomplish tasks in human-centric indoor environments, robots need to represent and understand the world in terms of objects and their attributes. We refer to this attribute-based representation as a world model, and consider how to acquire it via noisy perception and maintain it over time, as objects are added, changed, and removed in the world. Previous work has framed this as multiple-target tracking problem, where objects are potentially in motion at all times. Although this approach is general, it is computationally expensive. We argue that such generality is not needed in typical world modeling tasks, where objects only change state occasionally. More efficient approaches are enabled by restricting ourselves to such semi-static environments. We consider a previously-proposed clustering-based world modeling approach that assumed static environments, and extend it to semi-static domains by applying a dependent Dirichlet-process (DDP) mixture model. We derive a novel MAP inference algorithm under this model, subject to data association constraints. We demonstrate our approach improves computational performance in semi-static environments. 

Title: Safe and Fast Tracking on a Robot Manipulator: Robust MPC and Neural Network Control
Abstract:  Fast feedback control and safety guarantees are essential in modern robotics. We present an approach that achieves both by combining novel robust model predictive control (MPC) with function approximation via (deep) neural networks (NNs). The result is a new approach for complex tasks with nonlinear, uncertain, and constrained dynamics as are common in robotics. Specifically, we leverage recent results in MPC research to propose a new robust setpoint tracking MPC algorithm, which achieves reliable and safe tracking of a dynamic setpoint while guaranteeing stability and constraint satisfaction. The presented robust MPC scheme constitutes a one-layer approach that unifies the often separated planning and control layers, by directly computing the control command based on a reference and possibly obstacle positions. As a separate contribution, we show how the computation time of the MPC can be drastically reduced by approximating the MPC law with a NN controller. The NN is trained and validated from offline samples of the MPC, yielding statistical guarantees, and used in lieu thereof at run time. Our experiments on a state-of-the-art robot manipulator are the first to show that both the proposed robust and approximate MPC schemes scale to real-world robotic systems. 

Title: Interpretable Control by Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  In this paper, three recently introduced reinforcement learning (RL) methods are used to generate human-interpretable policies for the cart-pole balancing benchmark. The novel RL methods learn human-interpretable policies in the form of compact fuzzy controllers and simple algebraic equations. The representations as well as the achieved control performances are compared with two classical controller design methods and three non-interpretable RL methods. All eight methods utilize the same previously generated data batch and produce their controller offline - without interaction with the real benchmark dynamics. The experiments show that the novel RL methods are able to automatically generate well-performing policies which are at the same time human-interpretable. Furthermore, one of the methods is applied to automatically learn an equation-based policy for a hardware cart-pole demonstrator by using only human-player-generated batch data. The solution generated in the first attempt already represents a successful balancing policy, which demonstrates the methods applicability to real-world problems. 

Title: Early Estimation of User's Intention of Tele-Operation Using Object Affordance and Hand Motion in a Dual First-Person Vision
Abstract:  This paper describes a method of estimating the intention of a user's motion in a robot tele-operation scenario. One of the issues in tele-operation is latency, which occurs due to various reasons such as a slow robot motion and a narrow communication channel. An effective way of reducing the latency is to estimate the human intention of motions and to move the robot proactively. To enable a reliable early intention estimation, we use both hand motion and object affordances in a dual first-person vision (robot and user) with an HMD. Experimental results in an object pickup scenario show the effectiveness of the method. 

Title: Temporally Identity-Aware SSD with Attentional LSTM
Abstract:  Temporal object detection has attracted significant attention, but most popular detection methods cannot leverage rich temporal information in videos. Very recently, many algorithms have been developed for video detection task, yet very few approaches can achieve \emph{real-time online} object detection in videos. In this paper, based on attention mechanism and convolutional long short-term memory (ConvLSTM), we propose a temporal single-shot detector (TSSD) for real-world detection. Distinct from previous methods, we take aim at temporally integrating pyramidal feature hierarchy using ConvLSTM, and design a novel structure including a low-level temporal unit as well as a high-level one (LH-TU) for multi-scale feature maps. Moreover, we develop a creative temporal analysis unit, namely, attentional ConvLSTM (AC-LSTM), in which a temporal attention mechanism is specially tailored for background suppression and scale suppression while a ConvLSTM integrates attention-aware features across time. An association loss and a multi-step training are designed for temporal coherence. Besides, an online tubelet analysis (OTA) is exploited for identification. Our framework is evaluated on ImageNet VID dataset and 2DMOT15 dataset. Extensive comparisons on the detection and tracking capability validate the superiority of the proposed approach. Consequently, the developed TSSD-OTA achieves a fast speed and an overall competitive performance in terms of detection and tracking. Finally, a real-world maneuver is conducted for underwater object grasping. The source code is publicly available at https://github.com/SeanChenxy/TSSD-OTA. 

Title: A Diffusion Process on Riemannian Manifold for Visual Tracking
Abstract:  Robust visual tracking for long video sequences is a research area that has many important applications. The main challenges include how the target image can be modeled and how this model can be updated. In this paper, we model the target using a covariance descriptor, as this descriptor is robust to problems such as pixel-pixel misalignment, pose and illumination changes, that commonly occur in visual tracking. We model the changes in the template using a generative process. We introduce a new dynamical model for the template update using a random walk on the Riemannian manifold where the covariance descriptors lie in. This is done using log-transformed space of the manifold to free the constraints imposed inherently by positive semidefinite matrices. Modeling template variations and poses kinetics together in the state space enables us to jointly quantify the uncertainties relating to the kinematic states and the template in a principled way. Finally, the sequential inference of the posterior distribution of the kinematic states and the template is done using a particle filter. Our results shows that this principled approach can be robust to changes in illumination, poses and spatial affine transformation. In the experiments, our method outperformed the current state-of-the-art algorithm - the incremental Principal Component Analysis method, particularly when a target underwent fast poses changes and also maintained a comparable performance in stable target tracking cases. 

Title: RANSAC: Identification of Higher-Order Geometric Features and Applications in Humanoid Robot Soccer
Abstract:  The ability for an autonomous agent to self-localise is directly proportional to the accuracy and precision with which it can perceive salient features within its local environment. The identification of such features by recognising geometric profile allows robustness against lighting variations, which is necessary in most industrial robotics applications. This paper details a framework by which the random sample consensus (RANSAC) algorithm, often applied to parameter fitting in linear models, can be extended to identify higher-order geometric features. Goalpost identification within humanoid robot soccer is investigated as an application, with the developed system yielding an order-of-magnitude improvement in classification performance relative to a traditional histogramming methodology. 

Title: Imagined Value Gradients: Model-Based Policy Optimization with Transferable Latent Dynamics Models
Abstract:  Humans are masters at quickly learning many complex tasks, relying on an approximate understanding of the dynamics of their environments. In much the same way, we would like our learning agents to quickly adapt to new tasks. In this paper, we explore how model-based Reinforcement Learning (RL) can facilitate transfer to new tasks. We develop an algorithm that learns an action-conditional, predictive model of expected future observations, rewards and values from which a policy can be derived by following the gradient of the estimated value along imagined trajectories. We show how robust policy optimization can be achieved in robot manipulation tasks even with approximate models that are learned directly from vision and proprioception. We evaluate the efficacy of our approach in a transfer learning scenario, re-using previously learned models on tasks with different reward structures and visual distractors, and show a significant improvement in learning speed compared to strong off-policy baselines. Videos with results can be found at https://sites.google.com/view/ivg-corl19 

Title: Unbiased Offline Evaluation of Contextual-bandit-based News Article Recommendation Algorithms
Abstract:  Contextual bandit algorithms have become popular for online recommendation systems such as Digg, Yahoo! Buzz, and news recommendation in general. \emph{Offline} evaluation of the effectiveness of new algorithms in these applications is critical for protecting online user experiences but very challenging due to their "partial-label" nature. Common practice is to create a simulator which simulates the online environment for the problem at hand and then run an algorithm against this simulator. However, creating simulator itself is often difficult and modeling bias is usually unavoidably introduced. In this paper, we introduce a \emph{replay} methodology for contextual bandit algorithm evaluation. Different from simulator-based approaches, our method is completely data-driven and very easy to adapt to different applications. More importantly, our method can provide provably unbiased evaluations. Our empirical results on a large-scale news article recommendation dataset collected from Yahoo! Front Page conform well with our theoretical results. Furthermore, comparisons between our offline replay and online bucket evaluation of several contextual bandit algorithms show accuracy and effectiveness of our offline evaluation method. 

Title: Balanced Depth Completion between Dense Depth Inference and Sparse Range Measurements via KISS-GP
Abstract:  Estimating a dense and accurate depth map is the key requirement for autonomous driving and robotics. Recent advances in deep learning have allowed depth estimation in full resolution from a single image. Despite this impressive result, many deep-learning-based monocular depth estimation (MDE) algorithms have failed to keep their accuracy yielding a meter-level estimation error. In many robotics applications, accurate but sparse measurements are readily available from Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR). Although they are highly accurate, the sparsity limits full resolution depth map reconstruction. Targeting the problem of dense and accurate depth map recovery, this paper introduces the fusion of these two modalities as a depth completion (DC) problem by dividing the role of depth inference and depth regression. Utilizing the state-of-the-art MDE and our Gaussian process (GP) based depth-regression method, we propose a general solution that can flexibly work with various MDE modules by enhancing its depth with sparse range measurements. To overcome the major limitation of GP, we adopt Kernel Interpolation for Scalable Structured (KISS)-GP and mitigate the computational complexity from O(N^3) to O(N). Our experiments demonstrate that the accuracy and robustness of our method outperform state-of-the-art unsupervised methods for sparse and biased measurements. 

Title: Artificial Intelligence for Prosthetics - challenge solutions
Abstract:  In the NeurIPS 2018 Artificial Intelligence for Prosthetics challenge, participants were tasked with building a controller for a musculoskeletal model with a goal of matching a given time-varying velocity vector. Top participants were invited to describe their algorithms. In this work, we describe the challenge and present thirteen solutions that used deep reinforcement learning approaches. Many solutions use similar relaxations and heuristics, such as reward shaping, frame skipping, discretization of the action space, symmetry, and policy blending. However, each team implemented different modifications of the known algorithms by, for example, dividing the task into subtasks, learning low-level control, or by incorporating expert knowledge and using imitation learning. 

Title: The Importance of Prior Knowledge in Precise Multimodal Prediction
Abstract:  Roads have well defined geometries, topologies, and traffic rules. While this has been widely exploited in motion planning methods to produce maneuvers that obey the law, little work has been devoted to utilize these priors in perception and motion forecasting methods. In this paper we propose to incorporate these structured priors as a loss function. In contrast to imposing hard constraints, this approach allows the model to handle non-compliant maneuvers when those happen in the real world. Safe motion planning is the end goal, and thus a probabilistic characterization of the possible future developments of the scene is key to choose the plan with the lowest expected cost. Towards this goal, we design a framework that leverages REINFORCE to incorporate non-differentiable priors over sample trajectories from a probabilistic model, thus optimizing the whole distribution. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on real-world self-driving datasets containing complex road topologies and multi-agent interactions. Our motion forecasts not only exhibit better precision and map understanding, but most importantly result in safer motion plans taken by our self-driving vehicle. We emphasize that despite the importance of this evaluation, it has been often overlooked by previous perception and motion forecasting works. 

Title: Learning Deep Parameterized Skills from Demonstration for Re-targetable Visuomotor Control
Abstract:  Robots need to learn skills that can not only generalize across similar problems but also be directed to a specific goal. Previous methods either train a new skill for every different goal or do not infer the specific target in the presence of multiple goals from visual data. We introduce an end-to-end method that represents targetable visuomotor skills as a goal-parameterized neural network policy. By training on an informative subset of available goals with the associated target parameters, we are able to learn a policy that can zero-shot generalize to previously unseen goals. We evaluate our method in a representative 2D simulation of a button-grid and on both button-pressing and peg-insertion tasks on two different physical arms. We demonstrate that our model trained on 33% of the possible goals is able to generalize to more than 90% of the targets in the scene for both simulation and robot experiments. We also successfully learn a mapping from target pixel coordinates to a robot policy to complete a specified goal. 

Title: Real-Time Point Cloud Fusion of Multi-LiDAR Infrastructure Sensor Setups with Unknown Spatial Location and Orientation
Abstract:  The use of infrastructure sensor technology for traffic detection has already been proven several times. However, extrinsic sensor calibration is still a challenge for the operator. While previous approaches are unable to calibrate the sensors without the use of reference objects in the sensor field of view (FOV), we present an algorithm that is completely detached from external assistance and runs fully automatically. Our method focuses on the high-precision fusion of LiDAR point clouds and is evaluated in simulation as well as on real measurements. We set the LiDARs in a continuous pendulum motion in order to simulate real-world operation as closely as possible and to increase the demands on the algorithm. However, it does not receive any information about the initial spatial location and orientation of the LiDARs throughout the entire measurement period. Experiments in simulation as well as with real measurements have shown that our algorithm performs a continuous point cloud registration of up to four 64-layer LiDARs in real-time. The averaged resulting translational error is within a few centimeters and the averaged error in rotation is below 0.15 degrees. 

Title: 6D Pose Estimation with Correlation Fusion
Abstract:  6D object pose estimation is widely applied in robotic tasks such as grasping and manipulation. Prior methods using RGB-only images are vulnerable to heavy occlusion and poor illumination, so it is important to complement them with depth information. However, existing methods using RGB-D data don't adequately exploit consistent and complementary information between two modalities. In this paper, we present a novel method to effectively consider the correlation within and across RGB and depth modalities with attention mechanism to learn discriminative multi-modal features. Then, effective fusion strategies for intra- and inter-correlation modules are explored to ensure efficient information flow between RGB and depth. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to explore effective intra- and inter-modality fusion in 6D pose estimation and experimental results show that our method can help achieve the state-of-the-art performance on LineMOD and YCB-Video datasets as well as benefit robot grasping task. 

Title: Robot Learning in Homes: Improving Generalization and Reducing Dataset Bias
Abstract:  Data-driven approaches to solving robotic tasks have gained a lot of traction in recent years. However, most existing policies are trained on large-scale datasets collected in curated lab settings. If we aim to deploy these models in unstructured visual environments like people's homes, they will be unable to cope with the mismatch in data distribution. In such light, we present the first systematic effort in collecting a large dataset for robotic grasping in homes. First, to scale and parallelize data collection, we built a low cost mobile manipulator assembled for under 3K USD. Second, data collected using low cost robots suffer from noisy labels due to imperfect execution and calibration errors. To handle this, we develop a framework which factors out the noise as a latent variable. Our model is trained on 28K grasps collected in several houses under an array of different environmental conditions. We evaluate our models by physically executing grasps on a collection of novel objects in multiple unseen homes. The models trained with our home dataset showed a marked improvement of 43.7% over a baseline model trained with data collected in lab. Our architecture which explicitly models the latent noise in the dataset also performed 10% better than one that did not factor out the noise. We hope this effort inspires the robotics community to look outside the lab and embrace learning based approaches to handle inaccurate cheap robots. 

Title: Learning Constrained Dynamics with Gauss Principle adhering Gaussian Processes
Abstract:  The identification of the constrained dynamics of mechanical systems is often challenging. Learning methods promise to ease an analytical analysis, but require considerable amounts of data for training. We propose to combine insights from analytical mechanics with Gaussian process regression to improve the model's data efficiency and constraint integrity. The result is a Gaussian process model that incorporates a priori constraint knowledge such that its predictions adhere to Gauss' principle of least constraint. In return, predictions of the system's acceleration naturally respect potentially non-ideal (non-)holonomic equality constraints. As corollary results, our model enables to infer the acceleration of the unconstrained system from data of the constrained system and enables knowledge transfer between differing constraint configurations. 

Title: Reinforcement Learning with Probabilistically Complete Exploration
Abstract:  Balancing exploration and exploitation remains a key challenge in reinforcement learning (RL). State-of-the-art RL algorithms suffer from high sample complexity, particularly in the sparse reward case, where they can do no better than to explore in all directions until the first positive rewards are found. To mitigate this, we propose Rapidly Randomly-exploring Reinforcement Learning (R3L). We formulate exploration as a search problem and leverage widely-used planning algorithms such as Rapidly-exploring Random Tree (RRT) to find initial solutions. These solutions are used as demonstrations to initialize a policy, then refined by a generic RL algorithm, leading to faster and more stable convergence. We provide theoretical guarantees of R3L exploration finding successful solutions, as well as bounds for its sampling complexity. We experimentally demonstrate the method outperforms classic and intrinsic exploration techniques, requiring only a fraction of exploration samples and achieving better asymptotic performance. 

Title: Self-organized control for musculoskeletal robots
Abstract:  With the accelerated development of robot technologies, optimal control becomes one of the central themes of research. In traditional approaches, the controller, by its internal functionality, finds appropriate actions on the basis of the history of sensor values, guided by the goals, intentions, objectives, learning schemes, and so on planted into it. The idea is that the controller controls the world---the body plus its environment---as reliably as possible. However, in elastically actuated robots this approach faces severe difficulties. This paper advocates for a new paradigm of self-organized control. The paper presents a solution with a controller that is devoid of any functionalities of its own, given by a fixed, explicit and context-free function of the recent history of the sensor values. When applying this controller to a muscle-tendon driven arm-shoulder system from the Myorobotics toolkit, we observe a vast variety of self-organized behavior patterns: when left alone, the arm realizes pseudo-random sequences of different poses but one can also manipulate the system into definite motion patterns. But most interestingly, after attaching an object, the controller gets in a functional resonance with the object's internal dynamics: when given a half-filled bottle, the system spontaneously starts shaking the bottle so that maximum response from the dynamics of the water is being generated. After attaching a pendulum to the arm, the controller drives the pendulum into a circular mode. In this way, the robot discovers dynamical affordances of objects its body is interacting with. We also discuss perspectives for using this controller paradigm for intention driven behavior generation. 

Title: Online Visual Place Recognition via Saliency Re-identification
Abstract:  As an essential component of visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), place recognition is crucial for robot navigation and autonomous driving. Existing methods often formulate visual place recognition as feature matching, which is computationally expensive for many robotic applications with limited computing power, e.g., autonomous driving and cleaning robot. Inspired by the fact that human beings always recognize a place by remembering salient regions or landmarks that are more attractive or interesting than others, we formulate visual place recognition as saliency re-identification. In the meanwhile, we propose to perform both saliency detection and re-identification in frequency domain, in which all operations become element-wise. The experiments show that our proposed method achieves competitive accuracy and much higher speed than the state-of-the-art feature-based methods. The proposed method is open-sourced and available at https://github.com/wh200720041/SRLCD.git. 

Title: Efficient Decentralized Visual Place Recognition From Full-Image Descriptors
Abstract:  In this paper, we discuss the adaptation of our decentralized place recognition method described in [1] to full image descriptors. As we had shown, the key to making a scalable decentralized visual place recognition lies in exploting deterministic key assignment in a distributed key-value map. Through this, it is possible to reduce bandwidth by up to a factor of n, the robot count, by casting visual place recognition to a key-value lookup problem. In [1], we exploited this for the bag-of-words method [3], [4]. Our method of casting bag-of-words, however, results in a complex decentralized system, which has inherently worse recall than its centralized counterpart. In this paper, we instead start from the recent full-image description method NetVLAD [5]. As we show, casting this to a key-value lookup problem can be achieved with k-means clustering, and results in a much simpler system than [1]. The resulting system still has some flaws, albeit of a completely different nature: it suffers when the environment seen during deployment lies in a different distribution in feature space than the environment seen during training. 

Title: Tracking Emotions: Intrinsic Motivation Grounded on Multi-Level Prediction Error Dynamics
Abstract:  How do cognitive agents decide what is the relevant information to learn and how goals are selected to gain this knowledge? Cognitive agents need to be motivated to perform any action. We discuss that emotions arise when differences between expected and actual rates of progress towards a goal are experienced. Therefore, the tracking of prediction error dynamics has a tight relationship with emotions. Here, we suggest that the tracking of prediction error dynamics allows an artificial agent to be intrinsically motivated to seek new experiences but constrained to those that generate reducible prediction error.We present an intrinsic motivation architecture that generates behaviors towards self-generated and dynamic goals and that regulates goal selection and the balance between exploitation and exploration through multi-level monitoring of prediction error dynamics. This new architecture modulates exploration noise and leverages computational resources according to the dynamics of the overall performance of the learning system. Additionally, it establishes a possible solution to the temporal dynamics of goal selection. The results of the experiments presented here suggest that this architecture outperforms intrinsic motivation approaches where exploratory noise and goals are fixed and a greedy strategy is applied. 

Title: Learning Deep Visual Object Models From Noisy Web Data: How to Make it Work
Abstract:  Deep networks thrive when trained on large scale data collections. This has given ImageNet a central role in the development of deep architectures for visual object classification. However, ImageNet was created during a specific period in time, and as such it is prone to aging, as well as dataset bias issues. Moving beyond fixed training datasets will lead to more robust visual systems, especially when deployed on robots in new environments which must train on the objects they encounter there. To make this possible, it is important to break free from the need for manual annotators. Recent work has begun to investigate how to use the massive amount of images available on the Web in place of manual image annotations. We contribute to this research thread with two findings: (1) a study correlating a given level of noisily labels to the expected drop in accuracy, for two deep architectures, on two different types of noise, that clearly identifies GoogLeNet as a suitable architecture for learning from Web data; (2) a recipe for the creation of Web datasets with minimal noise and maximum visual variability, based on a visual and natural language processing concept expansion strategy. By combining these two results, we obtain a method for learning powerful deep object models automatically from the Web. We confirm the effectiveness of our approach through object categorization experiments using our Web-derived version of ImageNet on a popular robot vision benchmark database, and on a lifelong object discovery task on a mobile robot. 

Title: Efficient Saliency Maps for Explainable AI
Abstract:  We describe an explainable AI saliency map method for use with deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) that is much more efficient than popular fine-resolution gradient methods. It is also quantitatively similar or better in accuracy. Our technique works by measuring information at the end of each network scale which is then combined into a single saliency map. We describe how saliency measures can be made more efficient by exploiting Saliency Map Order Equivalence. We visualize individual scale/layer contributions by using a Layer Ordered Visualization of Information. This provides an interesting comparison of scale information contributions within the network not provided by other saliency map methods. Using our method instead of Guided Backprop, coarse-resolution class activation methods such as Grad-CAM and Grad-CAM++ seem to yield demonstrably superior results without sacrificing speed. This will make fine-resolution saliency methods feasible on resource limited platforms such as robots, cell phones, low-cost industrial devices, astronomy and satellite imagery. 

Title: A Game Theoretical Framework for the Evaluation of Unmanned Aircraft Systems Airspace Integration Concepts
Abstract:  Predicting the outcomes of integrating Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) into the National Aerospace (NAS) is a complex problem which is required to be addressed by simulation studies before allowing the routine access of UAS into the NAS. This thesis focuses on providing 2D and 3D simulation frameworks using a game theoretical methodology to evaluate integration concepts in scenarios where manned and unmanned air vehicles co-exist. The fundamental gap in the literature is that the models of interaction between manned and unmanned vehicles are insufficient: a) they assume that pilot behavior is known a priori and b) they disregard decision making processes. The contribution of this work is to propose a modeling framework, in which, human pilot reactions are modeled using reinforcement learning and a game theoretical concept called level-k reasoning to fill this gap. The level-k reasoning concept is based on the assumption that humans have various levels of decision making. Reinforcement learning is a mathematical learning method that is rooted in human learning. In this work, a classical and an approximate reinforcement learning (Neural Fitted Q Iteration) methods are used to model time-extended decisions of pilots with 2D and 3D maneuvers. An analysis of UAS integration is conducted using example scenarios in the presence of manned aircraft and fully autonomous UAS equipped with sense and avoid algorithms. 

Title: A Multi-Stage Clustering Framework for Automotive Radar Data
Abstract:  Radar sensors provide a unique method for executing environmental perception tasks towards autonomous driving. Especially their capability to perform well in adverse weather conditions often makes them superior to other sensors such as cameras or lidar. Nevertheless, the high sparsity and low dimensionality of the commonly used detection data level is a major challenge for subsequent signal processing. Therefore, the data points are often merged in order to form larger entities from which more information can be gathered. The merging process is often implemented in form of a clustering algorithm. This article describes a novel approach for first filtering out static background data before applying a twostage clustering approach. The two-stage clustering follows the same paradigm as the idea for data association itself: First, clustering what is ought to belong together in a low dimensional parameter space, then, extracting additional features from the newly created clusters in order to perform a final clustering step. Parameters are optimized for filtering and both clustering steps. All techniques are assessed both individually and as a whole in order to demonstrate their effectiveness. Final results indicate clear benefits of the first two methods and also the cluster merging process under specific circumstances. 

Title: GAPLE: Generalizable Approaching Policy LEarning for Robotic Object Searching in Indoor Environment
Abstract:  We study the problem of learning a generalizable action policy for an intelligent agent to actively approach an object of interest in an indoor environment solely from its visual inputs. While scene-driven or recognition-driven visual navigation has been widely studied, prior efforts suffer severely from the limited generalization capability. In this paper, we first argue the object searching task is environment dependent while the approaching ability is general. To learn a generalizable approaching policy, we present a novel solution dubbed as GAPLE which adopts two channels of visual features: depth and semantic segmentation, as the inputs to the policy learning module. The empirical studies conducted on the House3D dataset as well as on a physical platform in a real world scenario validate our hypothesis, and we further provide in-depth qualitative analysis. 

Title: Structured Mechanical Models for Robot Learning and Control
Abstract:  Model-based methods are the dominant paradigm for controlling robotic systems, though their efficacy depends heavily on the accuracy of the model used. Deep neural networks have been used to learn models of robot dynamics from data, but they suffer from data-inefficiency and the difficulty to incorporate prior knowledge. We introduce Structured Mechanical Models, a flexible model class for mechanical systems that are data-efficient, easily amenable to prior knowledge, and easily usable with model-based control techniques. The goal of this work is to demonstrate the benefits of using Structured Mechanical Models in lieu of black-box neural networks when modeling robot dynamics. We demonstrate that they generalize better from limited data and yield more reliable model-based controllers on a variety of simulated robotic domains. 

Title: End-to-End Model-Free Reinforcement Learning for Urban Driving using Implicit Affordances
Abstract:  Reinforcement Learning (RL) aims at learning an optimal behavior policy from its own experiments and not rule-based control methods. However, there is no RL algorithm yet capable of handling a task as difficult as urban driving. We present a novel technique, coined implicit affordances, to effectively leverage RL for urban driving thus including lane keeping, pedestrians and vehicles avoidance, and traffic light detection. To our knowledge we are the first to present a successful RL agent handling such a complex task especially regarding the traffic light detection. Furthermore, we have demonstrated the effectiveness of our method by winning the Camera Only track of the CARLA challenge. 

Title: Incremental RANSAC for Online Relocation in Large Dynamic Environments
Abstract:  Vehicle relocation is the problem in which a mobile robot has to estimate the self-position with respect to an a priori map of landmarks using the perception and the motion measurements without using any knowledge of the initial self-position. Recently, RANdom SAmple Consensus (RANSAC), a robust multi-hypothesis estimator, has been successfully applied to offline relocation in static environments. On the other hand, online relocation in dynamic environments is still a difficult problem, for available computation time is always limited, and for measurement include many outliers. To realize real time algorithm for such an online process, we have developed an incremental version of RANSAC algorithm by extending an efficient preemption RANSAC scheme. This novel scheme named incremental RANSAC is able to find inlier hypotheses of self-positions out of large number of outlier hypotheses contaminated by outlier measurements. 

Title: Continuous Direct Sparse Visual Odometry from RGB-D Images
Abstract:  This paper reports on a novel formulation and evaluation of visual odometry from RGB-D images. Assuming a static scene, the developed theoretical framework generalizes the widely used direct energy formulation (photometric error minimization) technique for obtaining a rigid body transformation that aligns two overlapping RGB-D images to a continuous formulation. The continuity is achieved through functional treatment of the problem and representing the process models over RGB-D images in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space; consequently, the registration is not limited to the specific image resolution and the framework is fully analytical with a closed-form derivation of the gradient. We solve the problem by maximizing the inner product between two functions defined over RGB-D images, while the continuous action of the rigid body motion Lie group is captured through the integration of the flow in the corresponding Lie algebra. Energy-based approaches have been extremely successful and the developed framework in this paper shares many of their desired properties such as the parallel structure on both CPUs and GPUs, sparsity, semi-dense tracking, avoiding explicit data association which is computationally expensive, and possible extensions to the simultaneous localization and mapping frameworks. The evaluations on experimental data and comparison with the equivalent energy-based formulation of the problem confirm the effectiveness of the proposed technique, especially, when the lack of structure and texture in the environment is evident. 

Title: Sistema de Navega\c{c}\~ao Aut\^onomo Baseado em Vis\~ao Computacional
Abstract:  Autonomous robots are used as the tool to solve many kinds of problems, such as environmental mapping and monitoring. Either for adverse conditions related to the human presence or even for the need to reduce costs, it is certain that many efforts have been made to develop robots with an increasingly high level of autonomy. They must be capable of locomotion through dynamic environments, without human operators or assistant systems' help. It is noted, thus, that the form of perception and modeling of the environment becomes significantly relevant to navigation. Among the main sensing methods are those based on vision. Through this, it is possible to create highly-detailed models about the environment, since many characteristics can be measured, such as texture, color, and illumination. However, the most accurate vision-based navigation techniques are computationally expensive to run on low-cost mobile platforms. Therefore, the goal of this work was to develop a low-cost robot, controlled by a Raspberry Pi, whose navigation system is based on vision. For this purpose, the strategy used consisted in identifying obstacles via optical flow pattern recognition. Through this signal, it is possible to infer the relative displacement between the robot and other elements in the environment. Its estimation was done using the Lucas-Kanade algorithm, which can be executed by the Raspberry Pi without harming its performance. Finally, an SVM based classifier was used to identify patterns of this signal associated with obstacles movement. The developed system was evaluated considering its execution over an optical flow pattern dataset extracted from a real navigation environment. In the end, it was verified that the processing frequency of the system was superior to the others. Furthermore, its accuracy and acquisition cost were, respectively, higher and lower than most of the cited works. 

Title: Pixel-Wise Motion Deblurring of Thermal Videos
Abstract:  Uncooled microbolometers can enable robots to see in the absence of visible illumination by imaging the "heat" radiated from the scene. Despite this ability to see in the dark, these sensors suffer from significant motion blur. This has limited their application on robotic systems. As described in this paper, this motion blur arises due to the thermal inertia of each pixel. This has meant that traditional motion deblurring techniques, which rely on identifying an appropriate spatial blur kernel to perform spatial deconvolution, are unable to reliably perform motion deblurring on thermal camera images. To address this problem, this paper formulates reversing the effect of thermal inertia at a single pixel as a Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) problem which we can solve rapidly using a quadratic programming solver. By leveraging sparsity and a high frame rate, this pixel-wise LASSO formulation is able to recover motion deblurred frames of thermal videos without using any spatial information. To compare its quality against state-of-the-art visible camera based deblurring methods, this paper evaluated the performance of a family of pre-trained object detectors on a set of images restored by different deblurring algorithms. All evaluated object detectors performed systematically better on images restored by the proposed algorithm rather than any other tested, state-of-the-art methods. 

Title: Graph Neural Networks and Reinforcement Learning for Behavior Generation in Semantic Environments
Abstract:  Most reinforcement learning approaches used in behavior generation utilize vectorial information as input. However, this requires the network to have a pre-defined input-size -- in semantic environments this means assuming the maximum number of vehicles. Additionally, this vectorial representation is not invariant to the order and number of vehicles. To mitigate the above-stated disadvantages, we propose combining graph neural networks with actor-critic reinforcement learning. As graph neural networks apply the same network to every vehicle and aggregate incoming edge information, they are invariant to the number and order of vehicles. This makes them ideal candidates to be used as networks in semantic environments -- environments consisting of objects lists. Graph neural networks exhibit some other advantages that make them favorable to be used in semantic environments. The relational information is explicitly given and does not have to be inferred. Moreover, graph neural networks propagate information through the network and can gather higher-degree information. We demonstrate our approach using a highway lane-change scenario and compare the performance of graph neural networks to conventional ones. We show that graph neural networks are capable of handling scenarios with a varying number and order of vehicles during training and application. 

Title: Informative Path Planning for Anomaly Detection in Environment Exploration and Monitoring
Abstract:  An unmanned autonomous vehicle (UAV) is sent on a mission to explore and reconstruct an unknown environment from a series of measurements collected by Bayesian optimization. The success of the mission is judged by the UAV's ability to faithfully reconstruct any anomalous feature present in the environment (e.g., extreme topographic depressions or abnormal chemical concentrations). We show that the criteria commonly used for determining which locations the UAV should visit are ill-suited for this task. We introduce a number of novel criteria that guide the UAV towards regions of strong anomalies by leveraging previously collected information in a mathematically elegant and computationally tractable manner. We demonstrate superiority of the proposed approach in several applications. 

Title: Safe Reinforcement Learning in Constrained Markov Decision Processes
Abstract:  Safe reinforcement learning has been a promising approach for optimizing the policy of an agent that operates in safety-critical applications. In this paper, we propose an algorithm, SNO-MDP, that explores and optimizes Markov decision processes under unknown safety constraints. Specifically, we take a stepwise approach for optimizing safety and cumulative reward. In our method, the agent first learns safety constraints by expanding the safe region, and then optimizes the cumulative reward in the certified safe region. We provide theoretical guarantees on both the satisfaction of the safety constraint and the near-optimality of the cumulative reward under proper regularity assumptions. In our experiments, we demonstrate the effectiveness of SNO-MDP through two experiments: one uses a synthetic data in a new, openly-available environment named GP-SAFETY-GYM, and the other simulates Mars surface exploration by using real observation data. 

Title: MOPT: Multi-Object Panoptic Tracking
Abstract:  Comprehensive understanding of dynamic scenes is a critical prerequisite for intelligent robots to autonomously operate in their environment. Research in this domain, which encompasses diverse perception problems, has primarily been focused on addressing specific tasks individually rather than modeling the ability to understand dynamic scenes holistically. In this paper, we introduce a novel perception task denoted as multi-object panoptic tracking (MOPT), which unifies the conventionally disjoint tasks of semantic segmentation, instance segmentation, and multi-object tracking. MOPT allows for exploiting pixel-level semantic information of 'thing' and 'stuff' classes, temporal coherence, and pixel-level associations over time, for the mutual benefit of each of the individual sub-problems. To facilitate quantitative evaluations of MOPT in a unified manner, we propose the soft panoptic tracking quality (sPTQ) metric. As a first step towards addressing this task, we propose the novel PanopticTrackNet architecture that builds upon the state-of-the-art top-down panoptic segmentation network EfficientPS by adding a new tracking head to simultaneously learn all sub-tasks in an end-to-end manner. Additionally, we present several strong baselines that combine predictions from state-of-the-art panoptic segmentation and multi-object tracking models for comparison. We present extensive quantitative and qualitative evaluations of both vision-based and LiDAR-based MOPT that demonstrate encouraging results. 

Title: Real-time Semantic Segmentation of Crop and Weed for Precision Agriculture Robots Leveraging Background Knowledge in CNNs
Abstract:  Precision farming robots, which target to reduce the amount of herbicides that need to be brought out in the fields, must have the ability to identify crops and weeds in real time to trigger weeding actions. In this paper, we address the problem of CNN-based semantic segmentation of crop fields separating sugar beet plants, weeds, and background solely based on RGB data. We propose a CNN that exploits existing vegetation indexes and provides a classification in real time. Furthermore, it can be effectively re-trained to so far unseen fields with a comparably small amount of training data. We implemented and thoroughly evaluated our system on a real agricultural robot operating in different fields in Germany and Switzerland. The results show that our system generalizes well, can operate at around 20Hz, and is suitable for online operation in the fields. 

Title: InstanceMotSeg: Real-time Instance Motion Segmentation for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Moving object segmentation is a crucial task for autonomous vehicles as it can be used to segment objects in a class agnostic manner based on its motion cues. It will enable the detection of objects unseen during training (e.g., moose or a construction truck) generically based on their motion. Although pixel-wise motion segmentation has been studied in the literature, it is not dealt with at instance level, which would help separate connected segments of moving objects leading to better trajectory planning. In this paper, we proposed a motion-based instance segmentation task and created a new annotated dataset based on KITTI, which will be released publicly. We make use of the YOLACT model to solve the instance motion segmentation network by feeding inflow and image as input and instance motion masks as output. We extend it to a multi-task model that learns semantic and motion instance segmentation in a computationally efficient manner. Our model is based on sharing a prototype generation network between the two tasks and learning separate prototype coefficients per task. To obtain real-time performance, we study different efficient encoders and obtain 39 fps on a Titan Xp GPU using MobileNetV2 with an improvement of 10% mAP relative to the baseline. A video demonstration of our work is available in https://youtu.be/CWGZibugD9g. 

Title: A Keyframe-based Continuous Visual SLAM for RGB-D Cameras via Nonparametric Joint Geometric and Appearance Representation
Abstract:  This paper reports on a robust RGB-D SLAM system that performs well in scarcely textured and structured environments. We present a novel keyframe-based continuous visual odometry that builds on the recently developed continuous sensor registration framework. A joint geometric and appearance representation is the result of transforming the RGB-D images into functions that live in a Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space (RKHS). We solve both registration and keyframe selection problems via the inner product structure available in the RKHS. We also extend the proposed keyframe-based odometry method to a SLAM system using indirect ORB loop-closure constraints. The experimental evaluations using publicly available RGB-D benchmarks show that the developed keyframe selection technique using continuous visual odometry outperforms its robust dense (and direct) visual odometry equivalent. In addition, the developed SLAM system has better generalization across different training and validation sequences; it is robust to the lack of texture and structure in the scene; and shows comparable performance with the state-of-the-art SLAM systems. 

Title: Reliability Validation of Learning Enabled Vehicle Tracking
Abstract:  This paper studies the reliability of a real-world learning-enabled system, which conducts dynamic vehicle tracking based on a high-resolution wide-area motion imagery input. The system consists of multiple neural network components -- to process the imagery inputs -- and multiple symbolic (Kalman filter) components -- to analyse the processed information for vehicle tracking. It is known that neural networks suffer from adversarial examples, which make them lack robustness. However, it is unclear if and how the adversarial examples over learning components can affect the overall system-level reliability. By integrating a coverage-guided neural network testing tool, DeepConcolic, with the vehicle tracking system, we found that (1) the overall system can be resilient to some adversarial examples thanks to the existence of other components, and (2) the overall system presents an extra level of uncertainty which cannot be determined by analysing the deep learning components only. This research suggests the need for novel verification and validation methods for learning-enabled systems. 

Title: Sim-to-Real Transfer for Biped Locomotion
Abstract:  We present a new approach for transfer of dynamic robot control policies such as biped locomotion from simulation to real hardware. Key to our approach is to perform system identification of the model parameters {\mu} of the hardware (e.g. friction, center-of-mass) in two distinct stages, before policy learning (pre-sysID) and after policy learning (post-sysID). Pre-sysID begins by collecting trajectories from the physical hardware based on a set of generic motion sequences. Because the trajectories may not be related to the task of interest, presysID does not attempt to accurately identify the true value of {\mu}, but only to approximate the range of {\mu} to guide the policy learning. Next, a Projected Universal Policy (PUP) is created by simultaneously training a network that projects {\mu} to a low-dimensional latent variable {\eta} and a family of policies that are conditioned on {\eta}. The second round of system identification (post-sysID) is then carried out by deploying the PUP on the robot hardware using task-relevant trajectories. We use Bayesian Optimization to determine the values for {\eta} that optimizes the performance of PUP on the real hardware. We have used this approach to create three successful biped locomotion controllers (walk forward, walk backwards, walk sideways) on the Darwin OP2 robot. 

Title: Line-Circle-Square (LCS): A Multilayered Geometric Filter for Edge-Based Detection
Abstract:  This paper presents a state-of-the-art filter that reduces the complexity in object detection, tracking and mapping applications. Existing edge detection and tracking methods are proposed to create suitable autonomy for mobile robots, however many of them face overconfidence and large computations at the entrance to scenarios with an immense number of landmarks. In particular, it is not practically efficient to solely rely on limited sensors such as a camera. The method in this work, the Line-Circle-Square (LCS) filter, claims that mobile robots without a large database for object recognition and highly advanced prediction methods can deal with incoming objects that the camera captures in real-time. The proposed filter applies detection, tracking and learning to each defined expert to extract more information for judging scenes without over-calculation. The interactive learning feed between each expert creates a minimal error that works against overwhelming detected features in crowded scenes. Our experts are dependent on trust factors' covariance under the geometric definitions to ignore, emerge and compare detected landmarks. The experiment validates the effectiveness of the proposed filter in terms of detection precision and resource usage. 

Title: Online Domain Adaptation for Occupancy Mapping
Abstract:  Creating accurate spatial representations that take into account uncertainty is critical for autonomous robots to safely navigate in unstructured environments. Although recent LIDAR based mapping techniques can produce robust occupancy maps, learning the parameters of such models demand considerable computational time, discouraging them from being used in real-time and large-scale applications such as autonomous driving. Recognizing the fact that real-world structures exhibit similar geometric features across a variety of urban environments, in this paper, we argue that it is redundant to learn all geometry dependent parameters from scratch. Instead, we propose a theoretical framework building upon the theory of optimal transport to adapt model parameters to account for changes in the environment, significantly amortizing the training cost. Further, with the use of high-fidelity driving simulators and real-world datasets, we demonstrate how parameters of 2D and 3D occupancy maps can be automatically adapted to accord with local spatial changes. We validate various domain adaptation paradigms through a series of experiments, ranging from inter-domain feature transfer to simulation-to-real-world feature transfer. Experiments verified the possibility of estimating parameters with a negligible computational and memory cost, enabling large-scale probabilistic mapping in urban environments. 

Title: Beyond Single Stage Encoder-Decoder Networks: Deep Decoders for Semantic Image Segmentation
Abstract:  Single encoder-decoder methodologies for semantic segmentation are reaching their peak in terms of segmentation quality and efficiency per number of layers. To address these limitations, we propose a new architecture based on a decoder which uses a set of shallow networks for capturing more information content. The new decoder has a new topology of skip connections, namely backward and stacked residual connections. In order to further improve the architecture we introduce a weight function which aims to re-balance classes to increase the attention of the networks to under-represented objects. We carried out an extensive set of experiments that yielded state-of-the-art results for the CamVid, Gatech and Freiburg Forest datasets. Moreover, to further prove the effectiveness of our decoder, we conducted a set of experiments studying the impact of our decoder to state-of-the-art segmentation techniques. Additionally, we present a set of experiments augmenting semantic segmentation with optical flow information, showing that motion clues can boost pure image based semantic segmentation approaches. 

Title: Real-time convolutional networks for sonar image classification in low-power embedded systems
Abstract:  Deep Neural Networks have impressive classification performance, but this comes at the expense of significant computational resources at inference time. Autonomous Underwater Vehicles use low-power embedded systems for sonar image perception, and cannot execute large neural networks in real-time. We propose the use of max-pooling aggressively, and we demonstrate it with a Fire-based module and a new Tiny module that includes max-pooling in each module. By stacking them we build networks that achieve the same accuracy as bigger ones, while reducing the number of parameters and considerably increasing computational performance. Our networks can classify a 96x96 sonar image with 98.8 - 99.7 accuracy on only 41 to 61 milliseconds on a Raspberry Pi 2, which corresponds to speedups of 28.6 - 19.7. 

Title: Neural Lyapunov Control
Abstract:  We propose new methods for learning control policies and neural network Lyapunov functions for nonlinear control problems, with provable guarantee of stability. The framework consists of a learner that attempts to find the control and Lyapunov functions, and a falsifier that finds counterexamples to quickly guide the learner towards solutions. The procedure terminates when no counterexample is found by the falsifier, in which case the controlled nonlinear system is provably stable. The approach significantly simplifies the process of Lyapunov control design, provides end-to-end correctness guarantee, and can obtain much larger regions of attraction than existing methods such as LQR and SOS/SDP. We show experiments on how the new methods obtain high-quality solutions for challenging control problems. 

Title: FlowFusion: Dynamic Dense RGB-D SLAM Based on Optical Flow
Abstract:  Dynamic environments are challenging for visual SLAM since the moving objects occlude the static environment features and lead to wrong camera motion estimation. In this paper, we present a novel dense RGB-D SLAM solution that simultaneously accomplishes the dynamic/static segmentation and camera ego-motion estimation as well as the static background reconstructions. Our novelty is using optical flow residuals to highlight the dynamic semantics in the RGB-D point clouds and provide more accurate and efficient dynamic/static segmentation for camera tracking and background reconstruction. The dense reconstruction results on public datasets and real dynamic scenes indicate that the proposed approach achieved accurate and efficient performances in both dynamic and static environments compared to state-of-the-art approaches. 

Title: Scalable Autonomous Vehicle Safety Validation through Dynamic Programming and Scene Decomposition
Abstract:  An open question in autonomous driving is how best to use simulation to validate the safety of autonomous vehicles. Existing techniques rely on simulated rollouts, which can be inefficient for finding rare failure events, while other techniques are designed to only discover a single failure. In this work, we present a new safety validation approach that attempts to estimate the distribution over failures of an autonomous policy using approximate dynamic programming. Knowledge of this distribution allows for the efficient discovery of many failure examples. To address the problem of scalability, we decompose complex driving scenarios into subproblems consisting of only the ego vehicle and one other vehicle. These subproblems can be solved with approximate dynamic programming and their solutions are recombined to approximate the solution to the full scenario. We apply our approach to a simple two-vehicle scenario to demonstrate the technique as well as a more complex five-vehicle scenario to demonstrate scalability. In both experiments, we observed an increase in the number of failures discovered compared to baseline approaches. 

Title: Learning Instance Segmentation by Interaction
Abstract:  We present an approach for building an active agent that learns to segment its visual observations into individual objects by interacting with its environment in a completely self-supervised manner. The agent uses its current segmentation model to infer pixels that constitute objects and refines the segmentation model by interacting with these pixels. The model learned from over 50K interactions generalizes to novel objects and backgrounds. To deal with noisy training signal for segmenting objects obtained by self-supervised interactions, we propose robust set loss. A dataset of robot's interactions along-with a few human labeled examples is provided as a benchmark for future research. We test the utility of the learned segmentation model by providing results on a downstream vision-based control task of rearranging multiple objects into target configurations from visual inputs alone. Videos, code, and robotic interaction dataset are available at https://pathak22.github.io/seg-by-interaction/ 

Title: Text2Action: Generative Adversarial Synthesis from Language to Action
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a generative model which learns the relationship between language and human action in order to generate a human action sequence given a sentence describing human behavior. The proposed generative model is a generative adversarial network (GAN), which is based on the sequence to sequence (SEQ2SEQ) model. Using the proposed generative network, we can synthesize various actions for a robot or a virtual agent using a text encoder recurrent neural network (RNN) and an action decoder RNN. The proposed generative network is trained from 29,770 pairs of actions and sentence annotations extracted from MSR-Video-to-Text (MSR-VTT), a large-scale video dataset. We demonstrate that the network can generate human-like actions which can be transferred to a Baxter robot, such that the robot performs an action based on a provided sentence. Results show that the proposed generative network correctly models the relationship between language and action and can generate a diverse set of actions from the same sentence. 

Title: A Framework for Reinforcement Learning and Planning
Abstract:  Sequential decision making, commonly formalized as Markov Decision Process optimization, is a key challenge in artificial intelligence. Two successful approaches to MDP optimization are planning and reinforcement learning. Both research fields largely have their own research communities. However, if both research fields solve the same problem, then we should be able to disentangle the common factors in their solution approaches. Therefore, this paper presents a unifying framework for reinforcement learning and planning (FRAP), which identifies the underlying dimensions on which any planning or learning algorithm has to decide. At the end of the paper, we compare - in a single table - a variety of well-known planning, model-free and model-based RL algorithms along the dimensions of our framework, illustrating the validity of the framework. Altogether, FRAP provides deeper insight into the algorithmic space of planning and reinforcement learning, and also suggests new approaches to integration of both fields. 

Title: Learning to See Forces: Surgical Force Prediction with RGB-Point Cloud Temporal Convolutional Networks
Abstract:  Robotic surgery has been proven to offer clear advantages during surgical procedures, however, one of the major limitations is obtaining haptic feedback. Since it is often challenging to devise a hardware solution with accurate force feedback, we propose the use of "visual cues" to infer forces from tissue deformation. Endoscopic video is a passive sensor that is freely available, in the sense that any minimally-invasive procedure already utilizes it. To this end, we employ deep learning to infer forces from video as an attractive low-cost and accurate alternative to typically complex and expensive hardware solutions. First, we demonstrate our approach in a phantom setting using the da Vinci Surgical System affixed with an OptoForce sensor. Second, we then validate our method on an ex vivo liver organ. Our method results in a mean absolute error of 0.814 N in the ex vivo study, suggesting that it may be a promising alternative to hardware based surgical force feedback in endoscopic procedures. 

Title: Information driven self-organization of complex robotic behaviors
Abstract:  Information theory is a powerful tool to express principles to drive autonomous systems because it is domain invariant and allows for an intuitive interpretation. This paper studies the use of the predictive information (PI), also called excess entropy or effective measure complexity, of the sensorimotor process as a driving force to generate behavior. We study nonlinear and nonstationary systems and introduce the time-local predicting information (TiPI) which allows us to derive exact results together with explicit update rules for the parameters of the controller in the dynamical systems framework. In this way the information principle, formulated at the level of behavior, is translated to the dynamics of the synapses. We underpin our results with a number of case studies with high-dimensional robotic systems. We show the spontaneous cooperativity in a complex physical system with decentralized control. Moreover, a jointly controlled humanoid robot develops a high behavioral variety depending on its physics and the environment it is dynamically embedded into. The behavior can be decomposed into a succession of low-dimensional modes that increasingly explore the behavior space. This is a promising way to avoid the curse of dimensionality which hinders learning systems to scale well. 

Title: Inferring Spatial Uncertainty in Object Detection
Abstract:  The availability of real-world datasets is the prerequisite for developing object detection methods for autonomous driving. While ambiguity exists in object labels due to error-prone annotation process or sensor observation noises, current object detection datasets only provide deterministic annotations without considering their uncertainty. This precludes an in-depth evaluation among different object detection methods, especially for those that explicitly model predictive probability. In this work, we propose a generative model to estimate bounding box label uncertainties from LiDAR point clouds, and define a new representation of the probabilistic bounding box through spatial distribution. Comprehensive experiments show that the proposed model represents uncertainties commonly seen in driving scenarios. Based on the spatial distribution, we further propose an extension of IoU, called the Jaccard IoU (JIoU), as a new evaluation metric that incorporates label uncertainty. Experiments on the KITTI and the Waymo Open Datasets show that JIoU is superior to IoU when evaluating probabilistic object detectors. 

Title: Curious iLQR: Resolving Uncertainty in Model-based RL
Abstract:  Curiosity as a means to explore during reinforcement learning problems has recently become very popular. However, very little progress has been made in utilizing curiosity for learning control. In this work, we propose a model-based reinforcement learning (MBRL) framework that combines Bayesian modeling of the system dynamics with curious iLQR, an iterative LQR approach that considers model uncertainty. During trajectory optimization the curious iLQR attempts to minimize both the task-dependent cost and the uncertainty in the dynamics model. We demonstrate the approach on reaching tasks with 7-DoF manipulators in simulation and on a real robot. Our experiments show that MBRL with curious iLQR reaches desired end-effector targets more reliably and with less system rollouts when learning a new task from scratch, and that the learned model generalizes better to new reaching tasks. 

Title: Learning Task-Oriented Grasping for Tool Manipulation from Simulated Self-Supervision
Abstract:  Tool manipulation is vital for facilitating robots to complete challenging task goals. It requires reasoning about the desired effect of the task and thus properly grasping and manipulating the tool to achieve the task. Task-agnostic grasping optimizes for grasp robustness while ignoring crucial task-specific constraints. In this paper, we propose the Task-Oriented Grasping Network (TOG-Net) to jointly optimize both task-oriented grasping of a tool and the manipulation policy for that tool. The training process of the model is based on large-scale simulated self-supervision with procedurally generated tool objects. We perform both simulated and real-world experiments on two tool-based manipulation tasks: sweeping and hammering. Our model achieves overall 71.1% task success rate for sweeping and 80.0% task success rate for hammering. Supplementary material is available at: bit.ly/task-oriented-grasp 

Title: SE3-Nets: Learning Rigid Body Motion using Deep Neural Networks
Abstract:  We introduce SE3-Nets, which are deep neural networks designed to model and learn rigid body motion from raw point cloud data. Based only on sequences of depth images along with action vectors and point wise data associations, SE3-Nets learn to segment effected object parts and predict their motion resulting from the applied force. Rather than learning point wise flow vectors, SE3-Nets predict SE3 transformations for different parts of the scene. Using simulated depth data of a table top scene and a robot manipulator, we show that the structure underlying SE3-Nets enables them to generate a far more consistent prediction of object motion than traditional flow based networks. Additional experiments with a depth camera observing a Baxter robot pushing objects on a table show that SE3-Nets also work well on real data. 

Title: Transfer learning from synthetic to real images using variational autoencoders for robotic applications
Abstract:  Robotic learning in simulation environments provides a faster, more scalable, and safer training methodology than learning directly with physical robots. Also, synthesizing images in a simulation environment for collecting large-scale image data is easy, whereas capturing camera images in the real world is time consuming and expensive. However, learning from only synthetic images may not achieve the desired performance in real environments due to the gap between synthetic and real images. We thus propose a method that transfers learned capability of detecting object position from a simulation environment to the real world. Our method enables us to use only a very limited dataset of real images while leveraging a large dataset of synthetic images using multiple variational autoencoders. It detects object positions 6 to 7 times more precisely than the baseline of directly learning from the dataset of the real images. Object position estimation under varying environmental conditions forms one of the underlying requirement for standard robotic manipulation tasks. We show that the proposed method performs robustly in different lighting conditions or with other distractor objects present for this requirement. Using this detected object position, we transfer pick-and-place or reaching tasks learned in a simulation environment to an actual physical robot without re-training. 

Title: A Hierarchical Approach for Joint Multi-view Object Pose Estimation and Categorization
Abstract:  We propose a joint object pose estimation and categorization approach which extracts information about object poses and categories from the object parts and compositions constructed at different layers of a hierarchical object representation algorithm, namely Learned Hierarchy of Parts (LHOP). In the proposed approach, we first employ the LHOP to learn hierarchical part libraries which represent entity parts and compositions across different object categories and views. Then, we extract statistical and geometric features from the part realizations of the objects in the images in order to represent the information about object pose and category at each different layer of the hierarchy. Unlike the traditional approaches which consider specific layers of the hierarchies in order to extract information to perform specific tasks, we combine the information extracted at different layers to solve a joint object pose estimation and categorization problem using distributed optimization algorithms. We examine the proposed generative-discriminative learning approach and the algorithms on two benchmark 2-D multi-view image datasets. The proposed approach and the algorithms outperform state-of-the-art classification, regression and feature extraction algorithms. In addition, the experimental results shed light on the relationship between object categorization, pose estimation and the part realizations observed at different layers of the hierarchy. 

Title: Omnipush: accurate, diverse, real-world dataset of pushing dynamics with RGB-D video
Abstract:  Pushing is a fundamental robotic skill. Existing work has shown how to exploit models of pushing to achieve a variety of tasks, including grasping under uncertainty, in-hand manipulation and clearing clutter. Such models, however, are approximate, which limits their applicability. Learning-based methods can reason directly from raw sensory data with accuracy, and have the potential to generalize to a wider diversity of scenarios. However, developing and testing such methods requires rich-enough datasets. In this paper we introduce Omnipush, a dataset with high variety of planar pushing behavior. In particular, we provide 250 pushes for each of 250 objects, all recorded with RGB-D and a high precision tracking system. The objects are constructed so as to systematically explore key factors that affect pushing --the shape of the object and its mass distribution-- which have not been broadly explored in previous datasets, and allow to study generalization in model learning. Omnipush includes a benchmark for meta-learning dynamic models, which requires algorithms that make good predictions and estimate their own uncertainty. We also provide an RGB video prediction benchmark and propose other relevant tasks that can be suited with this dataset. Data and code are available at \url{https://web.mit.edu/mcube/omnipush-dataset/}. 

Title: Reconstruct, Rasterize and Backprop: Dense shape and pose estimation from a single image
Abstract:  This paper presents a new system to obtain dense object reconstructions along with 6-DoF poses from a single image. Geared towards high fidelity reconstruction, several recent approaches leverage implicit surface representations and deep neural networks to estimate a 3D mesh of an object, given a single image. However, all such approaches recover only the shape of an object; the reconstruction is often in a canonical frame, unsuitable for downstream robotics tasks. To this end, we leverage recent advances in differentiable rendering (in particular, rasterization) to close the loop with 3D reconstruction in camera frame. We demonstrate that our approach---dubbed reconstruct, rasterize and backprop (RRB) achieves significantly lower pose estimation errors compared to prior art, and is able to recover dense object shapes and poses from imagery. We further extend our results to an (offline) setup, where we demonstrate a dense monocular object-centric egomotion estimation system. 

Title: Point-cloud-based place recognition using CNN feature extraction
Abstract:  This paper proposes a novel point-cloud-based place recognition system that adopts a deep learning approach for feature extraction. By using a convolutional neural network pre-trained on color images to extract features from a range image without fine-tuning on extra range images, significant improvement has been observed when compared to using hand-crafted features. The resulting system is illumination invariant, rotation invariant and robust against moving objects that are unrelated to the place identity. Apart from the system itself, we also bring to the community a new place recognition dataset containing both point cloud and grayscale images covering a full $360^\circ$ environmental view. In addition, the dataset is organized in such a way that it facilitates experimental validation with respect to rotation invariance or robustness against unrelated moving objects separately. 

Title: Toward a Procedural Fruit Tree Rendering Framework for Image Analysis
Abstract:  We propose a procedural fruit tree rendering framework, based on Blender and Python scripts allowing to generate quickly labeled dataset (i.e. including ground truth semantic segmentation). It is designed to train image analysis deep learning methods (e.g. in a robotic fruit harvesting context), where real labeled training datasets are usually scarce and existing synthetic ones are too specialized. Moreover, the framework includes the possibility to introduce parametrized variations in the model (e.g. lightning conditions, background), producing a dataset with embedded Domain Randomization aspect. 

Title: ICSTrace: A Malicious IP Traceback Model for Attacking Data of Industrial Control System
Abstract:  Considering the attacks against industrial control system are mostly organized and premeditated actions, IP traceback is significant for the security of industrial control system. Based on the infrastructure of the Internet, we have developed a novel malicious IP traceback model-ICSTrace, without deploying any new services. The model extracts the function codes and their parameters from the attack data according to the format of industrial control protocol, and employs a short sequence probability method to transform the function codes and their parameter into a vector, which characterizes the attack pattern of malicious IP addresses. Furthermore, a Partial Seeded K-Means algorithm is proposed for the pattern's clustering, which helps in tracing the attacks back to an organization. ICSTrace is evaluated basing on the attack data captured by the large-scale deployed honeypots for industrial control system, and the results demonstrate that ICSTrace is effective on malicious IP traceback in industrial control system. 

Title: AlphaPilot: Autonomous Drone Racing
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel system for autonomous, vision-based drone racing combining learned data abstraction, nonlinear filtering, and time-optimal trajectory planning. The system has successfully been deployed at the first autonomous drone racing world championship: the 2019 AlphaPilot Challenge. Contrary to traditional drone racing systems, which only detect the next gate, our approach makes use of any visible gate and takes advantage of multiple, simultaneous gate detections to compensate for drift in the state estimate and build a global map of the gates. The global map and drift-compensated state estimate allow the drone to navigate through the race course even when the gates are not immediately visible and further enable to plan a near time-optimal path through the race course in real time based on approximate drone dynamics. The proposed system has been demonstrated to successfully guide the drone through tight race courses reaching speeds up to 8m/s and ranked second at the 2019 AlphaPilot Challenge. 

Title: Low Cost Semi-Autonomous Agricultural Robots In Pakistan-Vision Based Navigation Scalable methodology for wheat harvesting
Abstract:  Robots have revolutionized our way of life in recent years.One of the domains that has not yet completely benefited from the robotic automation is the agricultural sector. Agricultural Robotics should complement humans in the arduous tasks during different sub-domains of this sector. Extensive research in Agricultural Robotics has been carried out in Japan, USA, Australia and Germany focusing mainly on the heavy agricultural machinery. Pakistan is an agricultural rich country and its economy and food security are closely tied with agriculture in general and wheat in particular. However, agricultural research in Pakistan is still carried out using the conventional methodologies. This paper is an attempt to trigger the research in this modern domain so that we can benefit from cost effective and resource efficient autonomous agricultural methodologies. This paper focuses on a scalable low cost semi-autonomous technique for wheat harvest which primarily focuses on the farmers with small land holdings. The main focus will be on the vision part of the navigation system deployed by the proposed robot. 

Title: Multi-Agent Safe Planning with Gaussian Processes
Abstract:  Multi-agent safe systems have become an increasingly important area of study as we can now easily have multiple AI-powered systems operating together. In such settings, we need to ensure the safety of not only each individual agent, but also the overall system. In this paper, we introduce a novel multi-agent safe learning algorithm that enables decentralized safe navigation when there are multiple different agents in the environment. This algorithm makes mild assumptions about other agents and is trained in a decentralized fashion, i.e. with very little prior knowledge about other agents' policies. Experiments show our algorithm performs well with the robots running other algorithms when optimizing various objectives. 

Title: Learning to Drive Off Road on Smooth Terrain in Unstructured Environments Using an On-Board Camera and Sparse Aerial Images
Abstract:  We present a method for learning to drive on smooth terrain while simultaneously avoiding collisions in challenging off-road and unstructured outdoor environments using only visual inputs. Our approach applies a hybrid model-based and model-free reinforcement learning method that is entirely self-supervised in labeling terrain roughness and collisions using on-board sensors. Notably, we provide both first-person and overhead aerial image inputs to our model. We find that the fusion of these complementary inputs improves planning foresight and makes the model robust to visual obstructions. Our results show the ability to generalize to environments with plentiful vegetation, various types of rock, and sandy trails. During evaluation, our policy attained 90% smooth terrain traversal and reduced the proportion of rough terrain driven over by 6.1 times compared to a model using only first-person imagery. 

Title: Automated Lane Change Strategy using Proximal Policy Optimization-based Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Lane-change maneuvers are commonly executed by drivers to follow a certain routing plan, overtake a slower vehicle, adapt to a merging lane ahead, etc. However, improper lane change behaviors can be a major cause of traffic flow disruptions and even crashes. While many rule-based methods have been proposed to solve lane change problems for autonomous driving, they tend to exhibit limited performance due to the uncertainty and complexity of the driving environment. Machine learning-based methods offer an alternative approach, as Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) has shown promising success in many application domains including robotic manipulation, navigation, and playing video games. However, applying DRL to autonomous driving still faces many practical challenges in terms of slow learning rates, sample inefficiency, and safety concerns. In this study, we propose an automated lane change strategy using proximal policy optimization-based deep reinforcement learning, which shows great advantages in learning efficiency while still maintaining stable performance. The trained agent is able to learn a smooth, safe, and efficient driving policy to make lane-change decisions (i.e. when and how) in a challenging situation such as dense traffic scenarios. The effectiveness of the proposed policy is validated by using metrics of task success rate and collision rate. The simulation results demonstrate the lane change maneuvers can be efficiently learned and executed in a safe, smooth, and efficient manner. 

Title: Unsupervised Semantic Action Discovery from Video Collections
Abstract:  Human communication takes many forms, including speech, text and instructional videos. It typically has an underlying structure, with a starting point, ending, and certain objective steps between them. In this paper, we consider instructional videos where there are tens of millions of them on the Internet. We propose a method for parsing a video into such semantic steps in an unsupervised way. Our method is capable of providing a semantic "storyline" of the video composed of its objective steps. We accomplish this using both visual and language cues in a joint generative model. Our method can also provide a textual description for each of the identified semantic steps and video segments. We evaluate our method on a large number of complex YouTube videos and show that our method discovers semantically correct instructions for a variety of tasks. 

Title: Modelling Uncertainty in Deep Learning for Camera Relocalization
Abstract:  We present a robust and real-time monocular six degree of freedom visual relocalization system. We use a Bayesian convolutional neural network to regress the 6-DOF camera pose from a single RGB image. It is trained in an end-to-end manner with no need of additional engineering or graph optimisation. The algorithm can operate indoors and outdoors in real time, taking under 6ms to compute. It obtains approximately 2m and 6 degrees accuracy for very large scale outdoor scenes and 0.5m and 10 degrees accuracy indoors. Using a Bayesian convolutional neural network implementation we obtain an estimate of the model's relocalization uncertainty and improve state of the art localization accuracy on a large scale outdoor dataset. We leverage the uncertainty measure to estimate metric relocalization error and to detect the presence or absence of the scene in the input image. We show that the model's uncertainty is caused by images being dissimilar to the training dataset in either pose or appearance. 

Title: Sequence-based Multimodal Apprenticeship Learning For Robot Perception and Decision Making
Abstract:  Apprenticeship learning has recently attracted a wide attention due to its capability of allowing robots to learn physical tasks directly from demonstrations provided by human experts. Most previous techniques assumed that the state space is known a priori or employed simple state representations that usually suffer from perceptual aliasing. Different from previous research, we propose a novel approach named Sequence-based Multimodal Apprenticeship Learning (SMAL), which is capable to simultaneously fusing temporal information and multimodal data, and to integrate robot perception with decision making. To evaluate the SMAL approach, experiments are performed using both simulations and real-world robots in the challenging search and rescue scenarios. The empirical study has validated that our SMAL approach can effectively learn plans for robots to make decisions using sequence of multimodal observations. Experimental results have also showed that SMAL outperforms the baseline methods using individual images. 

Title: Context Discovery for Model Learning in Partially Observable Environments
Abstract:  The ability to learn a model is essential for the success of autonomous agents. Unfortunately, learning a model is difficult in partially observable environments, where latent environmental factors influence what the agent observes. In the absence of a supervisory training signal, autonomous agents therefore require a mechanism to autonomously discover these environmental factors, or sensorimotor contexts. This paper presents a method to discover sensorimotor contexts in partially observable environments, by constructing a hierarchical transition model. The method is evaluated in a simulation experiment, in which a robot learns that different rooms are characterized by different objects that are found in them. 

Title: Behavioural Repertoire via Generative Adversarial Policy Networks
Abstract:  Learning algorithms are enabling robots to solve increasingly challenging real-world tasks. These approaches often rely on demonstrations and reproduce the behavior shown. Unexpected changes in the environment may require using different behaviors to achieve the same effect, for instance to reach and grasp an object in changing clutter. An emerging paradigm addressing this robustness issue is to learn a diverse set of successful behaviors for a given task, from which a robot can select the most suitable policy when faced with a new environment. In this paper, we explore a novel realization of this vision by learning a generative model over policies. Rather than learning a single policy, or a small fixed repertoire, our generative model for policies compactly encodes an unbounded number of policies and allows novel controller variants to be sampled. Leveraging our generative policy network, a robot can sample novel behaviors until it finds one that works for a new environment. We demonstrate this idea with an application of robust ball-throwing in the presence of obstacles. We show that this approach achieves a greater diversity of behaviors than an existing evolutionary approach, while maintaining good efficacy of sampled behaviors, allowing a Baxter robot to hit targets more often when ball throwing in the presence of obstacles. 

Title: Team O2AS at the World Robot Summit 2018: An Approach to Robotic Kitting and Assembly Tasks using General Purpose Grippers and Tools
Abstract:  We propose a versatile robotic system for kitting and assembly tasks which uses no jigs or commercial tool changers. Instead of specialized end effectors, it uses its two-finger grippers to grasp and hold tools to perform subtasks such as screwing and suctioning. A third gripper is used as a precision picking and centering tool, and uses in-built passive compliance to compensate for small position errors and uncertainty. A novel grasp point detection for bin picking is described for the kitting task, using a single depth map. Using the proposed system we competed in the Assembly Challenge of the Industrial Robotics Category of the World Robot Challenge at the World Robot Summit 2018, obtaining 4th place and the SICE award for lean design and versatile tool use. We show the effectiveness of our approach through experiments performed during the competition. 

Title: Learning to Accelerate Decomposition for Multi-Directional 3D Printing
Abstract:  Multi-directional 3D printing has the capability of decreasing or eliminating the need for support structures. Recent work proposed a beam-guided search algorithm to find an optimized sequence of plane-clipping, which gives volume decomposition of a given 3D model. Different printing directions are employed in different regions to fabricate a model with tremendously less support (or even no support in many cases).To obtain optimized decomposition, a large beam width needs to be used in the search algorithm, leading to a very time-consuming computation. In this paper, we propose a learning framework that can accelerate the beam-guided search by using a smaller number of the original beam width to obtain results with similar quality. Specifically, we use the results of beam-guided search with large beam width to train a scoring function for candidate clipping planes based on six newly proposed feature metrics. With the help of these feature metrics, both the current and the sequence-dependent information are captured by the neural network to score candidates of clipping. As a result, we can achieve around 3x computational speed. We test and demonstrate our accelerated decomposition on a large dataset of models for 3D printing. 

Title: 3D Scene Graph: A Structure for Unified Semantics, 3D Space, and Camera
Abstract:  A comprehensive semantic understanding of a scene is important for many applications - but in what space should diverse semantic information (e.g., objects, scene categories, material types, texture, etc.) be grounded and what should be its structure? Aspiring to have one unified structure that hosts diverse types of semantics, we follow the Scene Graph paradigm in 3D, generating a 3D Scene Graph. Given a 3D mesh and registered panoramic images, we construct a graph that spans the entire building and includes semantics on objects (e.g., class, material, and other attributes), rooms (e.g., scene category, volume, etc.) and cameras (e.g., location, etc.), as well as the relationships among these entities. However, this process is prohibitively labor heavy if done manually. To alleviate this we devise a semi-automatic framework that employs existing detection methods and enhances them using two main constraints: I. framing of query images sampled on panoramas to maximize the performance of 2D detectors, and II. multi-view consistency enforcement across 2D detections that originate in different camera locations. 

Title: Visual Stability Prediction and Its Application to Manipulation
Abstract:  Understanding physical phenomena is a key competence that enables humans and animals to act and interact under uncertain perception in previously unseen environments containing novel objects and their configurations. Developmental psychology has shown that such skills are acquired by infants from observations at a very early stage. In this paper, we contrast a more traditional approach of taking a model-based route with explicit 3D representations and physical simulation by an {\em end-to-end} approach that directly predicts stability from appearance. We ask the question if and to what extent and quality such a skill can directly be acquired in a data-driven way---bypassing the need for an explicit simulation at run-time. We present a learning-based approach based on simulated data that predicts stability of towers comprised of wooden blocks under different conditions and quantities related to the potential fall of the towers. We first evaluate the approach on synthetic data and compared the results to human judgments on the same stimuli. Further, we extend this approach to reason about future states of such towers that in turn enables successful stacking. 

Title: Learned Critical Probabilistic Roadmaps for Robotic Motion Planning
Abstract:  Sampling-based motion planning techniques have emerged as an efficient algorithmic paradigm for solving complex motion planning problems. These approaches use a set of probing samples to construct an implicit graph representation of the robot's state space, allowing arbitrarily accurate representations as the number of samples increases to infinity. In practice, however, solution trajectories only rely on a few critical states, often defined by structure in the state space (e.g., doorways). In this work we propose a general method to identify these critical states via graph-theoretic techniques (betweenness centrality) and learn to predict criticality from only local environment features. These states are then leveraged more heavily via global connections within a hierarchical graph, termed Critical Probabilistic Roadmaps. Critical PRMs are demonstrated to achieve up to three orders of magnitude improvement over uniform sampling, while preserving the guarantees and complexity of sampling-based motion planning. A video is available at https://youtu.be/AYoD-pGd9ms. 

Title: Sub-Goal Trees -- a Framework for Goal-Based Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Many AI problems, in robotics and other domains, are goal-based, essentially seeking trajectories leading to various goal states. Reinforcement learning (RL), building on Bellman's optimality equation, naturally optimizes for a single goal, yet can be made multi-goal by augmenting the state with the goal. Instead, we propose a new RL framework, derived from a dynamic programming equation for the all pairs shortest path (APSP) problem, which naturally solves multi-goal queries. We show that this approach has computational benefits for both standard and approximate dynamic programming. Interestingly, our formulation prescribes a novel protocol for computing a trajectory: instead of predicting the next state given its predecessor, as in standard RL, a goal-conditioned trajectory is constructed by first predicting an intermediate state between start and goal, partitioning the trajectory into two. Then, recursively, predicting intermediate points on each sub-segment, until a complete trajectory is obtained. We call this trajectory structure a sub-goal tree. Building on it, we additionally extend the policy gradient methodology to recursively predict sub-goals, resulting in novel goal-based algorithms. Finally, we apply our method to neural motion planning, where we demonstrate significant improvements compared to standard RL on navigating a 7-DoF robot arm between obstacles. 

Title: CNN-based Lidar Point Cloud De-Noising in Adverse Weather
Abstract:  Lidar sensors are frequently used in environment perception for autonomous vehicles and mobile robotics to complement camera, radar, and ultrasonic sensors. Adverse weather conditions are significantly impacting the performance of lidar-based scene understanding by causing undesired measurement points that in turn effect missing detections and false positives. In heavy rain or dense fog, water drops could be misinterpreted as objects in front of the vehicle which brings a mobile robot to a full stop. In this paper, we present the first CNN-based approach to understand and filter out such adverse weather effects in point cloud data. Using a large data set obtained in controlled weather environments, we demonstrate a significant performance improvement of our method over state-of-the-art involving geometric filtering. Data is available at https://github.com/rheinzler/PointCloudDeNoising. 

Title: Gaussian-Dirichlet Random Fields for Inference over High Dimensional Categorical Observations
Abstract:  We propose a generative model for the spatio-temporal distribution of high dimensional categorical observations. These are commonly produced by robots equipped with an imaging sensor such as a camera, paired with an image classifier, potentially producing observations over thousands of categories. The proposed approach combines the use of Dirichlet distributions to model sparse co-occurrence relations between the observed categories using a latent variable, and Gaussian processes to model the latent variable's spatio-temporal distribution. Experiments in this paper show that the resulting model is able to efficiently and accurately approximate the temporal distribution of high dimensional categorical measurements such as taxonomic observations of microscopic organisms in the ocean, even in unobserved (held out) locations, far from other samples. This work's primary motivation is to enable deployment of informative path planning techniques over high dimensional categorical fields, which until now have been limited to scalar or low dimensional vector observations. 

Title: Brain Responses During Robot-Error Observation
Abstract:  Brain-controlled robots are a promising new type of assistive device for severely impaired persons. Little is however known about how to optimize the interaction of humans and brain-controlled robots. Information about the human's perceived correctness of robot performance might provide a useful teaching signal for adaptive control algorithms and thus help enhancing robot control. Here, we studied whether watching robots perform erroneous vs. correct action elicits differential brain responses that can be decoded from single trials of electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings, and whether brain activity during human-robot interaction is modulated by the robot's visual similarity to a human. To address these topics, we designed two experiments. In experiment I, participants watched a robot arm pour liquid into a cup. The robot performed the action either erroneously or correctly, i.e. it either spilled some liquid or not. In experiment II, participants observed two different types of robots, humanoid and non-humanoid, grabbing a ball. The robots either managed to grab the ball or not. We recorded high-resolution EEG during the observation tasks in both experiments to train a Filter Bank Common Spatial Pattern (FBCSP) pipeline on the multivariate EEG signal and decode for the correctness of the observed action, and for the type of the observed robot. Our findings show that it was possible to decode both correctness and robot type for the majority of participants significantly, although often just slightly, above chance level. Our findings suggest that non-invasive recordings of brain responses elicited when observing robots indeed contain decodable information about the correctness of the robot's action and the type of observed robot. 

Title: Eligibility Propagation to Speed up Time Hopping for Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  A mechanism called Eligibility Propagation is proposed to speed up the Time Hopping technique used for faster Reinforcement Learning in simulations. Eligibility Propagation provides for Time Hopping similar abilities to what eligibility traces provide for conventional Reinforcement Learning. It propagates values from one state to all of its temporal predecessors using a state transitions graph. Experiments on a simulated biped crawling robot confirm that Eligibility Propagation accelerates the learning process more than 3 times. 

Title: Augmenting learning using symmetry in a biologically-inspired domain
Abstract:  Invariances to translation, rotation and other spatial transformations are a hallmark of the laws of motion, and have widespread use in the natural sciences to reduce the dimensionality of systems of equations. In supervised learning, such as in image classification tasks, rotation, translation and scale invariances are used to augment training datasets. In this work, we use data augmentation in a similar way, exploiting symmetry in the quadruped domain of the DeepMind control suite (Tassa et al. 2018) to add to the trajectories experienced by the actor in the actor-critic algorithm of Abdolmaleki et al. (2018). In a data-limited regime, the agent using a set of experiences augmented through symmetry is able to learn faster. Our approach can be used to inject knowledge of invariances in the domain and task to augment learning in robots, and more generally, to speed up learning in realistic robotics applications. 

Title: Learning from Interventions using Hierarchical Policies for Safe Learning
Abstract:  Learning from Demonstrations (LfD) via Behavior Cloning (BC) works well on multiple complex tasks. However, a limitation of the typical LfD approach is that it requires expert demonstrations for all scenarios, including those in which the algorithm is already well-trained. The recently proposed Learning from Interventions (LfI) overcomes this limitation by using an expert overseer. The expert overseer only intervenes when it suspects that an unsafe action is about to be taken. Although LfI significantly improves over LfD, the state-of-the-art LfI fails to account for delay caused by the expert's reaction time and only learns short-term behavior. We address these limitations by 1) interpolating the expert's interventions back in time, and 2) by splitting the policy into two hierarchical levels, one that generates sub-goals for the future and another that generates actions to reach those desired sub-goals. This sub-goal prediction forces the algorithm to learn long-term behavior while also being robust to the expert's reaction time. Our experiments show that LfI using sub-goals in a hierarchical policy framework trains faster and achieves better asymptotic performance than typical LfD. 

Title: DroTrack: High-speed Drone-based Object Tracking Under Uncertainty
Abstract:  We present DroTrack, a high-speed visual single-object tracking framework for drone-captured video sequences. Most of the existing object tracking methods are designed to tackle well-known challenges, such as occlusion and cluttered backgrounds. The complex motion of drones, i.e., multiple degrees of freedom in three-dimensional space, causes high uncertainty. The uncertainty problem leads to inaccurate location predictions and fuzziness in scale estimations. DroTrack solves such issues by discovering the dependency between object representation and motion geometry. We implement an effective object segmentation based on Fuzzy C Means (FCM). We incorporate the spatial information into the membership function to cluster the most discriminative segments. We then enhance the object segmentation by using a pre-trained Convolution Neural Network (CNN) model. DroTrack also leverages the geometrical angular motion to estimate a reliable object scale. We discuss the experimental results and performance evaluation using two datasets of 51,462 drone-captured frames. The combination of the FCM segmentation and the angular scaling increased DroTrack precision by up to $9\%$ and decreased the centre location error by $162$ pixels on average. DroTrack outperforms all the high-speed trackers and achieves comparable results in comparison to deep learning trackers. DroTrack offers high frame rates up to 1000 frame per second (fps) with the best location precision, more than a set of state-of-the-art real-time trackers. 

Title: Predicting Motion of Vulnerable Road Users using High-Definition Maps and Efficient ConvNets
Abstract:  Following detection and tracking of traffic actors, prediction of their future motion is the next critical component of a self-driving vehicle (SDV) technology, allowing the SDV to operate safely and efficiently in its environment. This is particularly important when it comes to vulnerable road users (VRUs), such as pedestrians and bicyclists. These actors need to be handled with special care due to an increased risk of injury, as well as the fact that their behavior is less predictable than that of motorized actors. To address this issue, in the current study we present a deep learning-based method for predicting VRU movement, where we rasterize high-definition maps and actor's surroundings into a bird's-eye view image used as an input to deep convolutional networks. In addition, we propose a fast architecture suitable for real-time inference, and perform an ablation study of various rasterization approaches to find the optimal choice for accurate prediction. The results strongly indicate benefits of using the proposed approach for motion prediction of VRUs, both in terms of accuracy and latency. 

Title: An Incremental Self-Organizing Architecture for Sensorimotor Learning and Prediction
Abstract:  During visuomotor tasks, robots must compensate for temporal delays inherent in their sensorimotor processing systems. Delay compensation becomes crucial in a dynamic environment where the visual input is constantly changing, e.g., during the interacting with a human demonstrator. For this purpose, the robot must be equipped with a prediction mechanism for using the acquired perceptual experience to estimate possible future motor commands. In this paper, we present a novel neural network architecture that learns prototypical visuomotor representations and provides reliable predictions on the basis of the visual input. These predictions are used to compensate for the delayed motor behavior in an online manner. We investigate the performance of our method with a set of experiments comprising a humanoid robot that has to learn and generate visually perceived arm motion trajectories. We evaluate the accuracy in terms of mean prediction error and analyze the response of the network to novel movement demonstrations. Additionally, we report experiments with incomplete data sequences, showing the robustness of the proposed architecture in the case of a noisy and faulty visual sensor. 

Title: Rethinking Temporal Object Detection from Robotic Perspectives
Abstract:  Video object detection (VID) has been vigorously studied for years but almost all literature adopts a static accuracy-based evaluation, i.e., average precision (AP). From a robotic perspective, the importance of recall continuity and localization stability is equal to that of accuracy, but the AP is insufficient to reflect detectors' performance across time. In this paper, non-reference assessments are proposed for continuity and stability based on object tracklets. These temporal evaluations can serve as supplements to static AP. Further, we develop an online tracklet refinement for improving detectors' temporal performance through short tracklet suppression, fragment filling, and temporal location fusion. In addition, we propose a small-overlap suppression to extend VID methods to single object tracking (SOT) task so that a flexible SOT-by-detection framework is then formed. Extensive experiments are conducted on ImageNet VID dataset and real-world robotic tasks, where the superiority of our proposed approaches are validated and verified. Codes will be publicly available. 

Title: Learning the Latent Space of Robot Dynamics for Cutting Interaction Inference
Abstract:  Utilization of latent space to capture a lower-dimensional representation of a complex dynamics model is explored in this work. The targeted application is of a robotic manipulator executing a complex environment interaction task, in particular, cutting a wooden object. We train two flavours of Variational Autoencoders---standard and Vector-Quantised---to learn the latent space which is then used to infer certain properties of the cutting operation, such as whether the robot is cutting or not, as well as, material and geometry of the object being cut. The two VAE models are evaluated with reconstruction, prediction and a combined reconstruction/prediction decoders. The results demonstrate the expressiveness of the latent space for robotic interaction inference and the competitive prediction performance against recurrent neural networks. 

Title: Micro-Data Learning: The Other End of the Spectrum
Abstract:  Many fields are now snowed under with an avalanche of data, which raises considerable challenges for computer scientists. Meanwhile, robotics (among other fields) can often only use a few dozen data points because acquiring them involves a process that is expensive or time-consuming. How can an algorithm learn with only a few data points? 

Title: SynDistNet: Self-Supervised Monocular Fisheye Camera Distance Estimation Synergized with Semantic Segmentation for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  State-of-the-art self-supervised learning approaches for monocular depth estimation usually suffer from scale ambiguity. They do not generalize well when applied on distance estimation for complex projection models such as in fisheye and omnidirectional cameras. In this paper, we introduce a novel multi-task learning strategy to improve self-supervised monocular distance estimation on fisheye and pinhole camera images. Our contribution to this work is threefold: Firstly, we introduce a novel distance estimation network architecture using a self-attention based encoder coupled with robust semantic feature guidance to the decoder that can be trained in a one-stage fashion. Secondly, we integrate a generalized robust loss function, which improves performance significantly while removing the need for hyperparameter tuning with the reprojection loss. Finally, we reduce the artifacts caused by dynamic objects violating static world assumption by using a semantic masking strategy. We significantly improve upon the RMSE of previous work on fisheye by 25% reduction in RMSE. As there is limited work on fisheye cameras, we evaluated the proposed method on KITTI using a pinhole model.We achieved state-of-the-art performance among self-supervised methods without requiring an external scale estimation. 

Title: Symbol Emergence in Robotics: A Survey
Abstract:  Humans can learn the use of language through physical interaction with their environment and semiotic communication with other people. It is very important to obtain a computational understanding of how humans can form a symbol system and obtain semiotic skills through their autonomous mental development. Recently, many studies have been conducted on the construction of robotic systems and machine-learning methods that can learn the use of language through embodied multimodal interaction with their environment and other systems. Understanding human social interactions and developing a robot that can smoothly communicate with human users in the long term, requires an understanding of the dynamics of symbol systems and is crucially important. The embodied cognition and social interaction of participants gradually change a symbol system in a constructive manner. In this paper, we introduce a field of research called symbol emergence in robotics (SER). SER is a constructive approach towards an emergent symbol system. The emergent symbol system is socially self-organized through both semiotic communications and physical interactions with autonomous cognitive developmental agents, i.e., humans and developmental robots. Specifically, we describe some state-of-art research topics concerning SER, e.g., multimodal categorization, word discovery, and a double articulation analysis, that enable a robot to obtain words and their embodied meanings from raw sensory--motor information, including visual information, haptic information, auditory information, and acoustic speech signals, in a totally unsupervised manner. Finally, we suggest future directions of research in SER. 

Title: FaceBots: Steps Towards Enhanced Long-Term Human-Robot Interaction by Utilizing and Publishing Online Social Information
Abstract:  Our project aims at supporting the creation of sustainable and meaningful longer-term human-robot relationships through the creation of embodied robots with face recognition and natural language dialogue capabilities, which exploit and publish social information available on the web (Facebook). Our main underlying experimental hypothesis is that such relationships can be significantly enhanced if the human and the robot are gradually creating a pool of shared episodic memories that they can co-refer to (shared memories), and if they are both embedded in a social web of other humans and robots they both know and encounter (shared friends). In this paper, we are presenting such a robot, which as we will see achieves two significant novelties. 

Title: Kinematic Synthesis of Parallel Manipulator via Neural Network Approach
Abstract:  In this research, Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) have been used as a powerful tool to solve the inverse kinematic equations of a parallel robot. For this purpose, we have developed the kinematic equations of a Tricept parallel kinematic mechanism with two rotational and one translational degrees of freedom (DoF). Using the analytical method, the inverse kinematic equations are solved for specific trajectory, and used as inputs for the applied ANNs. The results of both applied networks (Multi-Layer Perceptron and Redial Basis Function) satisfied the required performance in solving complex inverse kinematics with proper accuracy and speed. 

Title: J-MOD$^{2}$: Joint Monocular Obstacle Detection and Depth Estimation
Abstract:  In this work, we propose an end-to-end deep architecture that jointly learns to detect obstacles and estimate their depth for MAV flight applications. Most of the existing approaches either rely on Visual SLAM systems or on depth estimation models to build 3D maps and detect obstacles. However, for the task of avoiding obstacles this level of complexity is not required. Recent works have proposed multi task architectures to both perform scene understanding and depth estimation. We follow their track and propose a specific architecture to jointly estimate depth and obstacles, without the need to compute a global map, but maintaining compatibility with a global SLAM system if needed. The network architecture is devised to exploit the joint information of the obstacle detection task, that produces more reliable bounding boxes, with the depth estimation one, increasing the robustness of both to scenario changes. We call this architecture J-MOD$^{2}$. We test the effectiveness of our approach with experiments on sequences with different appearance and focal lengths and compare it to SotA multi task methods that jointly perform semantic segmentation and depth estimation. In addition, we show the integration in a full system using a set of simulated navigation experiments where a MAV explores an unknown scenario and plans safe trajectories by using our detection model. 

Title: Guided Policy Search as Approximate Mirror Descent
Abstract:  Guided policy search algorithms can be used to optimize complex nonlinear policies, such as deep neural networks, without directly computing policy gradients in the high-dimensional parameter space. Instead, these methods use supervised learning to train the policy to mimic a "teacher" algorithm, such as a trajectory optimizer or a trajectory-centric reinforcement learning method. Guided policy search methods provide asymptotic local convergence guarantees by construction, but it is not clear how much the policy improves within a small, finite number of iterations. We show that guided policy search algorithms can be interpreted as an approximate variant of mirror descent, where the projection onto the constraint manifold is not exact. We derive a new guided policy search algorithm that is simpler and provides appealing improvement and convergence guarantees in simplified convex and linear settings, and show that in the more general nonlinear setting, the error in the projection step can be bounded. We provide empirical results on several simulated robotic navigation and manipulation tasks that show that our method is stable and achieves similar or better performance when compared to prior guided policy search methods, with a simpler formulation and fewer hyperparameters. 

Title: CoNES: Convex Natural Evolutionary Strategies
Abstract:  We present a novel algorithm -- convex natural evolutionary strategies (CoNES) -- for optimizing high-dimensional blackbox functions by leveraging tools from convex optimization and information geometry. CoNES is formulated as an efficiently-solvable convex program that adapts the evolutionary strategies (ES) gradient estimate to promote rapid convergence. The resulting algorithm is invariant to the parameterization of the belief distribution. Our numerical results demonstrate that CoNES vastly outperforms conventional blackbox optimization methods on a suite of functions used for benchmarking blackbox optimizers. Furthermore, CoNES demonstrates the ability to converge faster than conventional blackbox methods on a selection of OpenAI's MuJoCo reinforcement learning tasks for locomotion. 

Title: 3DCFS: Fast and Robust Joint 3D Semantic-Instance Segmentation via Coupled Feature Selection
Abstract:  We propose a novel fast and robust 3D point clouds segmentation framework via coupled feature selection, named 3DCFS, that jointly performs semantic and instance segmentation. Inspired by the human scene perception process, we design a novel coupled feature selection module, named CFSM, that adaptively selects and fuses the reciprocal semantic and instance features from two tasks in a coupled manner. To further boost the performance of the instance segmentation task in our 3DCFS, we investigate a loss function that helps the model learn to balance the magnitudes of the output embedding dimensions during training, which makes calculating the Euclidean distance more reliable and enhances the generalizability of the model. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our 3DCFS outperforms state-of-the-art methods on benchmark datasets in terms of accuracy, speed and computational cost. 

Title: Hierarchically Decoupled Imitation for Morphological Transfer
Abstract:  Learning long-range behaviors on complex high-dimensional agents is a fundamental problem in robot learning. For such tasks, we argue that transferring learned information from a morphologically simpler agent can massively improve the sample efficiency of a more complex one. To this end, we propose a hierarchical decoupling of policies into two parts: an independently learned low-level policy and a transferable high-level policy. To remedy poor transfer performance due to mismatch in morphologies, we contribute two key ideas. First, we show that incentivizing a complex agent's low-level to imitate a simpler agent's low-level significantly improves zero-shot high-level transfer. Second, we show that KL-regularized training of the high level stabilizes learning and prevents mode-collapse. Finally, on a suite of publicly released navigation and manipulation environments, we demonstrate the applicability of hierarchical transfer on long-range tasks across morphologies. Our code and videos can be found at https://sites.google.com/berkeley.edu/morphology-transfer. 

Title: Interpretable Multi Time-scale Constraints in Model-free Deep Reinforcement Learning for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  In many real world applications, reinforcement learning agents have to optimize multiple objectives while following certain rules or satisfying a list of constraints. Classical methods based on reward shaping, i.e. a weighted combination of different objectives in the reward signal, or Lagrangian methods, including constraints in the loss function, have no guarantees that the agent satisfies the constraints at all points in time and lack in interpretability. When a discrete policy is extracted from an action-value function, safe actions can be ensured by restricting the action space at maximization, but can lead to sub-optimal solutions among feasible alternatives. In this work, we propose Multi Time-scale Constrained DQN, a novel algorithm restricting the action space directly in the Q-update to learn the optimal Q-function for the constrained MDP and the corresponding safe policy. In addition to single-step constraints referring only to the next action, we introduce a formulation for approximate multi-step constraints under the current target policy based on truncated value-functions to enhance interpretability. We compare our algorithm to reward shaping and Lagrangian methods in the application of high-level decision making in autonomous driving, considering constraints for safety, keeping right and comfort. We train our agent in the open-source simulator SUMO and on the real HighD data set. 

Title: Planning to Explore via Self-Supervised World Models
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning allows solving complex tasks, however, the learning tends to be task-specific and the sample efficiency remains a challenge. We present Plan2Explore, a self-supervised reinforcement learning agent that tackles both these challenges through a new approach to self-supervised exploration and fast adaptation to new tasks, which need not be known during exploration. During exploration, unlike prior methods which retrospectively compute the novelty of observations after the agent has already reached them, our agent acts efficiently by leveraging planning to seek out expected future novelty. After exploration, the agent quickly adapts to multiple downstream tasks in a zero or a few-shot manner. We evaluate on challenging control tasks from high-dimensional image inputs. Without any training supervision or task-specific interaction, Plan2Explore outperforms prior self-supervised exploration methods, and in fact, almost matches the performances oracle which has access to rewards. Videos and code at https://ramanans1.github.io/plan2explore/ 

Title: SLAM with Objects using a Nonparametric Pose Graph
Abstract:  Mapping and self-localization in unknown environments are fundamental capabilities in many robotic applications. These tasks typically involve the identification of objects as unique features or landmarks, which requires the objects both to be detected and then assigned a unique identifier that can be maintained when viewed from different perspectives and in different images. The \textit{data association} and \textit{simultaneous localization and mapping} (SLAM) problems are, individually, well-studied in the literature. But these two problems are inherently tightly coupled, and that has not been well-addressed. Without accurate SLAM, possible data associations are combinatorial and become intractable easily. Without accurate data association, the error of SLAM algorithms diverge easily. This paper proposes a novel nonparametric pose graph that models data association and SLAM in a single framework. An algorithm is further introduced to alternate between inferring data association and performing SLAM. Experimental results show that our approach has the new capability of associating object detections and localizing objects at the same time, leading to significantly better performance on both the data association and SLAM problems than achieved by considering only one and ignoring imperfections in the other. 

Title: Swoosh! Rattle! Thump! -- Actions that Sound
Abstract:  Truly intelligent agents need to capture the interplay of all their senses to build a rich physical understanding of their world. In robotics, we have seen tremendous progress in using visual and tactile perception; however, we have often ignored a key sense: sound. This is primarily due to the lack of data that captures the interplay of action and sound. In this work, we perform the first large-scale study of the interactions between sound and robotic action. To do this, we create the largest available sound-action-vision dataset with 15,000 interactions on 60 objects using our robotic platform Tilt-Bot. By tilting objects and allowing them to crash into the walls of a robotic tray, we collect rich four-channel audio information. Using this data, we explore the synergies between sound and action and present three key insights. First, sound is indicative of fine-grained object class information, e.g., sound can differentiate a metal screwdriver from a metal wrench. Second, sound also contains information about the causal effects of an action, i.e. given the sound produced, we can predict what action was applied to the object. Finally, object representations derived from audio embeddings are indicative of implicit physical properties. We demonstrate that on previously unseen objects, audio embeddings generated through interactions can predict forward models 24% better than passive visual embeddings. Project videos and data are at https://dhiraj100892.github.io/swoosh/ 

Title: Visual Prediction of Priors for Articulated Object Interaction
Abstract:  Exploration in novel settings can be challenging without prior experience in similar domains. However, humans are able to build on prior experience quickly and efficiently. Children exhibit this behavior when playing with toys. For example, given a toy with a yellow and blue door, a child will explore with no clear objective, but once they have discovered how to open the yellow door, they will most likely be able to open the blue door much faster. Adults also exhibit this behavior when entering new spaces such as kitchens. We develop a method, Contextual Prior Prediction, which provides a means of transferring knowledge between interactions in similar domains through vision. We develop agents that exhibit exploratory behavior with increasing efficiency, by learning visual features that are shared across environments, and how they correlate to actions. Our problem is formulated as a Contextual Multi-Armed Bandit where the contexts are images, and the robot has access to a parameterized action space. Given a novel object, the objective is to maximize reward with few interactions. A domain which strongly exhibits correlations between visual features and motion is kinemetically constrained mechanisms. We evaluate our method on simulated prismatic and revolute joints. 

Title: Semantic Visual Navigation by Watching YouTube Videos
Abstract:  Semantic cues and statistical regularities in real-world environment layouts can improve efficiency for navigation in novel environments. This paper learns and leverages such semantic cues for navigating to objects of interest in novel environments, by simply watching YouTube videos. This is challenging because YouTube videos don't come with labels for actions or goals, and may not even showcase optimal behavior. Our proposed method tackles these challenges through the use of Q-learning on pseudo-labeled transition quadruples (image, action, next image, reward). We show that such off-policy Q-learning from passive data is able to learn meaningful semantic cues for navigation. These cues, when used in a hierarchical navigation policy, lead to improved efficiency at the ObjectGoal task in visually realistic simulations. We improve upon end-to-end RL methods by 66%, while using 250x fewer interactions. Code, data, and models will be made available. 

Title: Reward Learning from Narrated Demonstrations
Abstract:  Humans effortlessly "program" one another by communicating goals and desires in natural language. In contrast, humans program robotic behaviours by indicating desired object locations and poses to be achieved, by providing RGB images of goal configurations, or supplying a demonstration to be imitated. None of these methods generalize across environment variations, and they convey the goal in awkward technical terms. This work proposes joint learning of natural language grounding and instructable behavioural policies reinforced by perceptual detectors of natural language expressions, grounded to the sensory inputs of the robotic agent. Our supervision is narrated visual demonstrations(NVD), which are visual demonstrations paired with verbal narration (as opposed to being silent). We introduce a dataset of NVD where teachers perform activities while describing them in detail. We map the teachers' descriptions to perceptual reward detectors, and use them to train corresponding behavioural policies in simulation.We empirically show that our instructable agents (i) learn visual reward detectors using a small number of examples by exploiting hard negative mined configurations from demonstration dynamics, (ii) develop pick-and place policies using learned visual reward detectors, (iii) benefit from object-factorized state representations that mimic the syntactic structure of natural language goal expressions, and (iv) can execute behaviours that involve novel objects in novel locations at test time, instructed by natural language. 

Title: Persistent Monitoring of Stochastic Spatio-temporal Phenomena with a Small Team of Robots
Abstract:  This paper presents a solution for persistent monitoring of real-world stochastic phenomena, where the underlying covariance structure changes sharply across time, using a small number of mobile robot sensors. We propose an adaptive solution for the problem where stochastic real-world dynamics are modeled as a Gaussian Process (GP). The belief on the underlying covariance structure is learned from recently observed dynamics as a Gaussian Mixture (GM) in the low-dimensional hyper-parameters space of the GP and adapted across time using Sequential Monte Carlo methods. Each robot samples a belief point from the GM and locally optimizes a set of informative regions by greedy maximization of the submodular entropy function. The key contributions of this paper are threefold: adapting the belief on the covariance using Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling such that particles survive even under sharp covariance changes across time; exploiting the belief to transform the problem of entropy maximization into a decentralized one; and developing an approximation algorithm to maximize entropy on a set of informative regions in the continuous space. We illustrate the application of the proposed solution through extensive simulations using an artificial dataset and multiple real datasets from fixed sensor deployments, and compare it to three competing state-of-the-art approaches. 

Title: On Machine Learning and Structure for Mobile Robots
Abstract:  Due to recent advances - compute, data, models - the role of learning in autonomous systems has expanded significantly, rendering new applications possible for the first time. While some of the most significant benefits are obtained in the perception modules of the software stack, other aspects continue to rely on known manual procedures based on prior knowledge on geometry, dynamics, kinematics etc. Nonetheless, learning gains relevance in these modules when data collection and curation become easier than manual rule design. Building on this coarse and broad survey of current research, the final sections aim to provide insights into future potentials and challenges as well as the necessity of structure in current practical applications. 

Title: Prospection: Interpretable Plans From Language By Predicting the Future
Abstract:  High-level human instructions often correspond to behaviors with multiple implicit steps. In order for robots to be useful in the real world, they must be able to to reason over both motions and intermediate goals implied by human instructions. In this work, we propose a framework for learning representations that convert from a natural-language command to a sequence of intermediate goals for execution on a robot. A key feature of this framework is prospection, training an agent not just to correctly execute the prescribed command, but to predict a horizon of consequences of an action before taking it. We demonstrate the fidelity of plans generated by our framework when interpreting real, crowd-sourced natural language commands for a robot in simulated scenes. 

Title: A Holistic Visual Place Recognition Approach using Lightweight CNNs for Significant ViewPoint and Appearance Changes
Abstract:  This paper presents a lightweight visual place recognition approach, capable of achieving high performance with low computational cost, and feasible for mobile robotics under significant viewpoint and appearance changes. Results on several benchmark datasets confirm an average boost of 13% in accuracy, and 12x average speedup relative to state-of-the-art methods. 

Title: Gaze Stabilization for Humanoid Robots: a Comprehensive Framework
Abstract:  Gaze stabilization is an important requisite for humanoid robots. Previous work on this topic has focused on the integration of inertial and visual information. Little attention has been given to a third component, which is the knowledge that the robot has about its own movement. In this work we propose a comprehensive framework for gaze stabilization in a humanoid robot. We focus on the problem of compensating for disturbances induced in the cameras due to self-generated movements of the robot. In this work we employ two separate signals for stabilization: (1) an anticipatory term obtained from the velocity commands sent to the joints while the robot moves autonomously; (2) a feedback term from the on board gyroscope, which compensates unpredicted external disturbances. We first provide the mathematical formulation to derive the forward and the differential kinematics of the fixation point of the stereo system. We finally test our method on the iCub robot. We show that the stabilization consistently reduces the residual optical flow during the movement of the robot and in presence of external disturbances. We also demonstrate that proper integration of the neck DoF is crucial to achieve correct stabilization. 

Title: Learning Dexterous Manipulation for a Soft Robotic Hand from Human Demonstration
Abstract:  Dexterous multi-fingered hands can accomplish fine manipulation behaviors that are infeasible with simple robotic grippers. However, sophisticated multi-fingered hands are often expensive and fragile. Low-cost soft hands offer an appealing alternative to more conventional devices, but present considerable challenges in sensing and actuation, making them difficult to apply to more complex manipulation tasks. In this paper, we describe an approach to learning from demonstration that can be used to train soft robotic hands to perform dexterous manipulation tasks. Our method uses object-centric demonstrations, where a human demonstrates the desired motion of manipulated objects with their own hands, and the robot autonomously learns to imitate these demonstrations using reinforcement learning. We propose a novel algorithm that allows us to blend and select a subset of the most feasible demonstrations to learn to imitate on the hardware, which we use with an extension of the guided policy search framework to use multiple demonstrations to learn generalizable neural network policies. We demonstrate our approach on the RBO Hand 2, with learned motor skills for turning a valve, manipulating an abacus, and grasping. 

Title: Speech Driven Backchannel Generation using Deep Q-Network for Enhancing Engagement in Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract:  We present a novel method for training a social robot to generate backchannels during human-robot interaction. We address the problem within an off-policy reinforcement learning framework, and show how a robot may learn to produce non-verbal backchannels like laughs, when trained to maximize the engagement and attention of the user. A major contribution of this work is the formulation of the problem as a Markov decision process (MDP) with states defined by the speech activity of the user and rewards generated by quantified engagement levels. The problem that we address falls into the class of applications where unlimited interaction with the environment is not possible (our environment being a human) because it may be time-consuming, costly, impracticable or even dangerous in case a bad policy is executed. Therefore, we introduce deep Q-network (DQN) in a batch reinforcement learning framework, where an optimal policy is learned from a batch data collected using a more controlled policy. We suggest the use of human-to-human dyadic interaction datasets as a batch of trajectories to train an agent for engaging interactions. Our experiments demonstrate the potential of our method to train a robot for engaging behaviors in an offline manner. 

Title: Leveraging Multimodal Haptic Sensory Data for Robust Cutting
Abstract:  Cutting is a common form of manipulation when working with divisible objects such as food, rope, or clay. Cooking in particular relies heavily on cutting to divide food items into desired shapes. However, cutting food is a challenging task due to the wide range of material properties exhibited by food items. Due to this variability, the same cutting motions cannot be used for all food items. Sensations from contact events, e.g., when placing the knife on the food item, will also vary depending on the material properties, and the robot will need to adapt accordingly. In this paper, we propose using vibrations and force-torque feedback from the interactions to adapt the slicing motions and monitor for contact events. The robot learns neural networks for performing each of these tasks and generalizing across different material properties. By adapting and monitoring the skill executions, the robot is able to reliably cut through more than 20 different types of food items and even detect whether certain food items are fresh or old. 

Title: An LSTM-Based Autonomous Driving Model Using Waymo Open Dataset
Abstract:  The Waymo Open Dataset has been released recently, providing a platform to crowdsource some fundamental challenges for automated vehicles (AVs), such as 3D detection and tracking. While~the dataset provides a large amount of high-quality and multi-source driving information, people in academia are more interested in the underlying driving policy programmed in Waymo self-driving cars, which is inaccessible due to AV manufacturers' proprietary protection. Accordingly, academic researchers have to make various assumptions to implement AV components in their models or simulations, which may not represent the realistic interactions in real-world traffic. Thus, this paper introduces an approach to learn a long short-term memory (LSTM)-based model for imitating the behavior of Waymo's self-driving model. The proposed model has been evaluated based on Mean Absolute Error (MAE). The experimental results show that our model outperforms several baseline models in driving action prediction. In addition, a visualization tool is presented for verifying the performance of the model. 

Title: Improved Fourier Mellin Invariant for Robust Rotation Estimation with Omni-cameras
Abstract:  Spectral methods such as the improved Fourier Mellin Invariant (iFMI) transform have proved faster, more robust and accurate than feature based methods on image registration. However, iFMI is restricted to work only when the camera moves in 2D space and has not been applied on omni-cameras images so far. In this work, we extend the iFMI method and apply a motion model to estimate an omni-camera's pose when it moves in 3D space. This is particularly useful in field robotics applications to get a rapid and comprehensive view of unstructured environments, and to estimate robustly the robot pose. In the experiment section, we compared the extended iFMI method against ORB and AKAZE feature based approaches on three datasets showing different type of environments: office, lawn and urban scenery (MPI-omni dataset). The results show that our method boosts the accuracy of the robot pose estimation two to four times with respect to the feature registration techniques, while offering lower processing times. Furthermore, the iFMI approach presents the best performance against motion blur typically present in mobile robotics. 

Title: Commentaries on "Learning Sensorimotor Control with Neuromorphic Sensors: Toward Hyperdimensional Active Perception" [Science Robotics Vol. 4 Issue 30 (2019) 1-10
Abstract:  This correspondence comments on the findings reported in a recent Science Robotics article by Mitrokhin et al. [1]. The main goal of this commentary is to expand on some of the issues touched on in that article. Our experience is that hyperdimensional computing is very different from other approaches to computation and that it can take considerable exposure to its concepts before attaining practically useful understanding. Therefore, in order to provide an overview of the area to the first time reader of [1], the commentary includes a brief historic overview as well as connects the findings of the article to a larger body of literature existing in the area. 

Title: Incorporating Human Domain Knowledge in 3D LiDAR-based Semantic Segmentation
Abstract:  This work studies semantic segmentation using 3D LiDAR data. Popular deep learning methods applied for this task require a large number of manual annotations to train the parameters. We propose a new method that makes full use of the advantages of traditional methods and deep learning methods via incorporating human domain knowledge into the neural network model to reduce the demand for large numbers of manual annotations and improve the training efficiency. We first pretrain a model with autogenerated samples from a rule-based classifier so that human knowledge can be propagated into the network. Based on the pretrained model, only a small set of annotations is required for further fine-tuning. Quantitative experiments show that the pretrained model achieves better performance than random initialization in almost all cases; furthermore, our method can achieve similar performance with fewer manual annotations. 

Title: Probabilistic Prediction of Interactive Driving Behavior via Hierarchical Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Autonomous vehicles (AVs) are on the road. To safely and efficiently interact with other road participants, AVs have to accurately predict the behavior of surrounding vehicles and plan accordingly. Such prediction should be probabilistic, to address the uncertainties in human behavior. Such prediction should also be interactive, since the distribution over all possible trajectories of the predicted vehicle depends not only on historical information, but also on future plans of other vehicles that interact with it. To achieve such interaction-aware predictions, we propose a probabilistic prediction approach based on hierarchical inverse reinforcement learning (IRL). First, we explicitly consider the hierarchical trajectory-generation process of human drivers involving both discrete and continuous driving decisions. Based on this, the distribution over all future trajectories of the predicted vehicle is formulated as a mixture of distributions partitioned by the discrete decisions. Then we apply IRL hierarchically to learn the distributions from real human demonstrations. A case study for the ramp-merging driving scenario is provided. The quantitative results show that the proposed approach can accurately predict both the discrete driving decisions such as yield or pass as well as the continuous trajectories. 

Title: An Empirical Evaluation of Deep Learning on Highway Driving
Abstract:  Numerous groups have applied a variety of deep learning techniques to computer vision problems in highway perception scenarios. In this paper, we presented a number of empirical evaluations of recent deep learning advances. Computer vision, combined with deep learning, has the potential to bring about a relatively inexpensive, robust solution to autonomous driving. To prepare deep learning for industry uptake and practical applications, neural networks will require large data sets that represent all possible driving environments and scenarios. We collect a large data set of highway data and apply deep learning and computer vision algorithms to problems such as car and lane detection. We show how existing convolutional neural networks (CNNs) can be used to perform lane and vehicle detection while running at frame rates required for a real-time system. Our results lend credence to the hypothesis that deep learning holds promise for autonomous driving. 

Title: Disentangled Relational Representations for Explaining and Learning from Demonstration
Abstract:  Learning from demonstration is an effective method for human users to instruct desired robot behaviour. However, for most non-trivial tasks of practical interest, efficient learning from demonstration depends crucially on inductive bias in the chosen structure for rewards/costs and policies. We address the case where this inductive bias comes from an exchange with a human user. We propose a method in which a learning agent utilizes the information bottleneck layer of a high-parameter variational neural model, with auxiliary loss terms, in order to ground abstract concepts such as spatial relations. The concepts are referred to in natural language instructions and are manifested in the high-dimensional sensory input stream the agent receives from the world. We evaluate the properties of the latent space of the learned model in a photorealistic synthetic environment and particularly focus on examining its usability for downstream tasks. Additionally, through a series of controlled table-top manipulation experiments, we demonstrate that the learned manifold can be used to ground demonstrations as symbolic plans, which can then be executed on a PR2 robot. 

Title: Optimizing Gaze Direction in a Visual Navigation Task
Abstract:  Navigation in an unknown environment consists of multiple separable subtasks, such as collecting information about the surroundings and navigating to the current goal. In the case of pure visual navigation, all these subtasks need to utilize the same vision system, and therefore a way to optimally control the direction of focus is needed. We present a case study, where we model the active sensing problem of directing the gaze of a mobile robot with three machine vision cameras as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP) using a mutual information (MI) based reward function. The key aspect of the solution is that the cameras are dynamically used either in monocular or stereo configuration. The benefits of using the proposed active sensing implementation are demonstrated with simulations and experiments on a real robot. 

Title: Adaptive Continuous Visual Odometry from RGB-D Images
Abstract:  In this paper, we extend the recently developed continuous visual odometry framework for RGB-D cameras to an adaptive framework via online hyperparameter learning. We focus on the case of isotropic kernels with a scalar as the length-scale. In practice and as expected, the length-scale has remarkable impacts on the performance of the original framework. Previously it was handled using a fixed set of conditions within the solver to reduce the length-scale as the algorithm reaches a local minimum. We automate this process by a greedy gradient descent step at each iteration to find the next-best length-scale. Furthermore, to handle failure cases in the gradient descent step where the gradient is not well-behaved, such as the absence of structure or texture in the scene, we use a search interval for the length-scale and guide it gradually toward the smaller values. This latter strategy reverts the adaptive framework to the original setup. The experimental evaluations using publicly available RGB-D benchmarks show the proposed adaptive continuous visual odometry outperforms the original framework and the current state-of-the-art. We also make the software for the developed algorithm publicly available. 

Title: Learning rewards for robotic ultrasound scanning using probabilistic temporal ranking
Abstract:  This paper addresses a common class of problems where a robot learns to perform a discovery task based on example solutions, or \emph{human demonstrations}. As an example, this work considers the problem of ultrasound scanning, where a demonstration involves an expert adaptively searching for a satisfactory view of internal organs, vessels or tissue and potential anomalies while maintaining optimal contact between the probe and surface tissue. Such problems are often solved by inferring notional \emph{rewards} that, when optimised for, result in a plan that mimics demonstrations. A pivotal assumption, that plans with higher reward should be exponentially more likely, leads to the de facto approach for reward inference in robotics. While this approach of maximum entropy inverse reinforcement learning leads to a general and elegant formulation, it struggles to cope with frequently encountered sub-optimal demonstrations. In this paper, we propose an alternative approach to cope with the class of problems where sub-optimal demonstrations occur frequently. We hypothesise that, in tasks which require discovery, successive states of any demonstration are progressively more likely to be associated with a higher reward. We formalise this \emph{temporal ranking} approach and show that it improves upon maximum-entropy approaches to perform reward inference for autonomous ultrasound scanning, a novel application of learning from demonstration in medical imaging. 

Title: Learning Stabilizable Nonlinear Dynamics with Contraction-Based Regularization
Abstract:  We propose a novel framework for learning stabilizable nonlinear dynamical systems for continuous control tasks in robotics. The key contribution is a control-theoretic regularizer for dynamics fitting rooted in the notion of stabilizability, a constraint which guarantees the existence of robust tracking controllers for arbitrary open-loop trajectories generated with the learned system. Leveraging tools from contraction theory and statistical learning in Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Spaces, we formulate stabilizable dynamics learning as a functional optimization with convex objective and bi-convex functional constraints. Under a mild structural assumption and relaxation of the functional constraints to sampling-based constraints, we derive the optimal solution with a modified Representer theorem. Finally, we utilize random matrix feature approximations to reduce the dimensionality of the search parameters and formulate an iterative convex optimization algorithm that jointly fits the dynamics functions and searches for a certificate of stabilizability. We validate the proposed algorithm in simulation for a planar quadrotor, and on a quadrotor hardware testbed emulating planar dynamics. We verify, both in simulation and on hardware, significantly improved trajectory generation and tracking performance with the control-theoretic regularized model over models learned using traditional regression techniques, especially when learning from small supervised datasets. The results support the conjecture that the use of stabilizability constraints as a form of regularization can help prune the hypothesis space in a manner that is tailored to the downstream task of trajectory generation and feedback control, resulting in models that are not only dramatically better conditioned, but also data efficient. 

Title: DeepTerramechanics: Terrain Classification and Slip Estimation for Ground Robots via Deep Learning
Abstract:  Terramechanics plays a critical role in the areas of ground vehicles and ground mobile robots since understanding and estimating the variables influencing the vehicle-terrain interaction may mean the success or the failure of an entire mission. This research applies state-of-the-art algorithms in deep learning to two key problems: estimating wheel slip and classifying the terrain being traversed by a ground robot. Three data sets collected by ground robotic platforms (MIT single-wheel testbed, MSL Curiosity rover, and tracked robot Fitorobot) are employed in order to compare the performance of traditional machine learning methods (i.e. Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Multi-layer Perceptron (MLP)) against Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs). This work also shows the impact that certain tuning parameters and the network architecture (MLP, DNN and CNN) play on the performance of those methods. This paper also contributes a deep discussion with the lessons learned in the implementation of DNNs and CNNs and how these methods can be extended to solve other problems. 

Title: Learning from Sparse Demonstrations
Abstract:  This paper proposes an approach which enables a robot to learn an objective function from sparse demonstrations of an expert. The demonstrations are given by a small number of sparse waypoints; the waypoints are desired outputs of the robot's trajectory at certain time instances, sparsely located within a demonstration time horizon. The duration of the expert's demonstration may be different from the actual duration of the robot's execution. The proposed method enables to jointly learn an objective function and a time-warping function such that the robot's reproduced trajectory has minimal distance to the sparse demonstration waypoints. Unlike existing inverse reinforcement learning techniques, the proposed approach uses the differential Pontryagin's maximum principle, which allows direct minimization of the distance between the robot's trajectory and the sparse demonstration waypoints and enables simultaneous learning of an objective function and a time-warping function. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach in various simulated scenarios. We apply the method to learn motion planning/control of a 6-DoF maneuvering unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and a robot arm in environments with obstacles. The results show that a robot is able to learn a valid objective function to avoid obstacles with few demonstrated waypoints. 

Title: Long-term Large-scale Mapping and Localization Using maplab
Abstract:  This paper discusses a large-scale and long-term mapping and localization scenario using the maplab open-source framework. We present a brief overview of the specific algorithms in the system that enable building a consistent map from multiple sessions. We then demonstrate that such a map can be reused even a few months later for efficient 6-DoF localization and also new trajectories can be registered within the existing 3D model. The datasets presented in this paper are made publicly available. 

Title: An Analytical Lidar Sensor Model Based on Ray Path Information
Abstract:  Two core competencies of a mobile robot are to build a map of the environment and to estimate its own pose on the basis of this map and incoming sensor readings. To account for the uncertainties in this process, one typically employs probabilistic state estimation approaches combined with a model of the specific sensor. Over the past years, lidar sensors have become a popular choice for mapping and localization. However, many common lidar models perform poorly in unstructured, unpredictable environments, they lack a consistent physical model for both mapping and localization, and they do not exploit all the information the sensor provides, e.g. out-of-range measurements. In this paper, we introduce a consistent physical model that can be applied to mapping as well as to localization. It naturally deals with unstructured environments and makes use of both out-of-range measurements and information about the ray path. The approach can be seen as a generalization of the well-established reflection model, but in addition to counting ray reflections and traversals in a specific map cell, it considers the distances that all rays travel inside this cell. We prove that the resulting map maximizes the data likelihood and demonstrate that our model outperforms state-of-the-art sensor models in extensive real-world experiments. 

Title: A Non-linear Approach to Space Dimension Perception by a Naive Agent
Abstract:  Developmental Robotics offers a new approach to numerous AI features that are often taken as granted. Traditionally, perception is supposed to be an inherent capacity of the agent. Moreover, it largely relies on models built by the system's designer. A new approach is to consider perception as an experimentally acquired ability that is learned exclusively through the analysis of the agent's sensorimotor flow. Previous works, based on H.Poincar\'e's intuitions and the sensorimotor contingencies theory, allow a simulated agent to extract the dimension of geometrical space in which it is immersed without any a priori knowledge. Those results are limited to infinitesimal movement's amplitude of the system. In this paper, a non-linear dimension estimation method is proposed to push back this limitation. 

Title: Adaptive and Resilient Soft Tensegrity Robots
Abstract:  Living organisms intertwine soft (e.g., muscle) and hard (e.g., bones) materials, giving them an intrinsic flexibility and resiliency often lacking in conventional rigid robots. The emerging field of soft robotics seeks to harness these same properties in order to create resilient machines. The nature of soft materials, however, presents considerable challenges to aspects of design, construction, and control -- and up until now, the vast majority of gaits for soft robots have been hand-designed through empirical trial-and-error. This manuscript describes an easy-to-assemble tensegrity-based soft robot capable of highly dynamic locomotive gaits and demonstrating structural and behavioral resilience in the face of physical damage. Enabling this is the use of a machine learning algorithm able to discover effective gaits with a minimal number of physical trials. These results lend further credence to soft-robotic approaches that seek to harness the interaction of complex material dynamics in order to generate a wealth of dynamical behaviors. 

Title: Rapid trial-and-error learning with simulation supports flexible tool use and physical reasoning
Abstract:  Many animals, and an increasing number of artificial agents, display sophisticated capabilities to perceive and manipulate objects. But human beings remain distinctive in their capacity for flexible, creative tool use -- using objects in new ways to act on the world, achieve a goal, or solve a problem. To study this type of general physical problem solving, we introduce the Virtual Tools game. In this game, people solve a large range of challenging physical puzzles in just a handful of attempts. We propose that the flexibility of human physical problem solving rests on an ability to imagine the effects of hypothesized actions, while the efficiency of human search arises from rich action priors which are updated via observations of the world. We instantiate these components in the "Sample, Simulate, Update" (SSUP) model and show that it captures human performance across 30 levels of the Virtual Tools game. More broadly, this model provides a mechanism for explaining how people condense general physical knowledge into actionable, task-specific plans to achieve flexible and efficient physical problem-solving. 

Title: Vision-based Robotic Grasping From Object Localization, Object Pose Estimation to Grasp Estimation for Parallel Grippers: A Review
Abstract:  This paper presents a comprehensive survey on vision-based robotic grasping. We conclude three key tasks during vision-based robotic grasping, which are object localization, object pose estimation and grasp estimation. In detail, the object localization task contains object localization without classification, object detection and object instance segmentation. This task provides the regions of the target object in the input data. The object pose estimation task mainly refers to estimating the 6D object pose and includes correspondence-based methods, template-based methods and voting-based methods, which affords the generation of grasp poses for known objects. The grasp estimation task includes 2D planar grasp methods and 6DoF grasp methods, where the former is constrained to grasp from one direction. These three tasks could accomplish the robotic grasping with different combinations. Lots of object pose estimation methods need not object localization, and they conduct object localization and object pose estimation jointly. Lots of grasp estimation methods need not object localization and object pose estimation, and they conduct grasp estimation in an end-to-end manner. Both traditional methods and latest deep learning-based methods based on the RGB-D image inputs are reviewed elaborately in this survey. Related datasets and comparisons between state-of-the-art methods are summarized as well. In addition, challenges about vision-based robotic grasping and future directions in addressing these challenges are also pointed out. 

Title: Deep Kernels for Optimizing Locomotion Controllers
Abstract:  Sample efficiency is important when optimizing parameters of locomotion controllers, since hardware experiments are time consuming and expensive. Bayesian Optimization, a sample-efficient optimization framework, has recently been widely applied to address this problem, but further improvements in sample efficiency are needed for practical applicability to real-world robots and high-dimensional controllers. To address this, prior work has proposed using domain expertise for constructing custom distance metrics for locomotion. In this work we show how to learn such a distance metric automatically. We use a neural network to learn an informed distance metric from data obtained in high-fidelity simulations. We conduct experiments on two different controllers and robot architectures. First, we demonstrate improvement in sample efficiency when optimizing a 5-dimensional controller on the ATRIAS robot hardware. We then conduct simulation experiments to optimize a 16-dimensional controller for a 7-link robot model and obtain significant improvements even when optimizing in perturbed environments. This demonstrates that our approach is able to enhance sample efficiency for two different controllers, hence is a fitting candidate for further experiments on hardware in the future. 

Title: Learning Task-Oriented Grasping from Human Activity Datasets
Abstract:  We propose to leverage a real-world, human activity RGB dataset to teach a robot Task-Oriented Grasping (TOG). We develop a model that takes as input an RGB image and outputs a hand pose and configuration as well as an object pose and a shape. We follow the insight that jointly estimating hand and object poses increases accuracy compared to estimating these quantities independently of each other. Given the trained model, we process an RGB dataset to automatically obtain the data to train a TOG model. This model takes as input an object point cloud and outputs a suitable region for task-specific grasping. Our ablation study shows that training an object pose predictor with the hand pose information (and vice versa) is better than training without this information. Furthermore, our results on a real-world dataset show the applicability and competitiveness of our method over state-of-the-art. Experiments with a robot demonstrate that our method can allow a robot to preform TOG on novel objects. 

Title: Robustness-Driven Exploration with Probabilistic Metric Temporal Logic
Abstract:  The ability to perform autonomous exploration is essential for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) operating in unstructured or unknown environments where it is hard or even impossible to describe the environment beforehand. However, algorithms for autonomous exploration often focus on optimizing time and coverage in a greedy fashion. That type of exploration can collect irrelevant data and wastes time navigating areas with no important information. In this paper, we propose a method for exploiting the discovered knowledge about the environment while exploring it by relying on a theory of robustness based on Probabilistic Metric Temporal Logic (P-MTL) as applied to offline verification and online control of hybrid systems. By maximizing the satisfaction of the predefined P-MTL specifications of the exploration problem, the robustness values guide the UAV towards areas with more interesting information to gain. We use Markov Chain Monte Carlo to solve the P-MTL constraints. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach by simulating autonomous exploration over Amazonian rainforest where our approach is used to detect areas occupied by illegal Artisanal Small-scale Gold Mining (ASGM) activities. The results show that our approach outperform a greedy exploration approach (Autonomous Exploration Planner) by 38% in terms of ASGM coverage. 

Title: Learning Locomotion Skills Using DeepRL: Does the Choice of Action Space Matter?
Abstract:  The use of deep reinforcement learning allows for high-dimensional state descriptors, but little is known about how the choice of action representation impacts the learning difficulty and the resulting performance. We compare the impact of four different action parameterizations (torques, muscle-activations, target joint angles, and target joint-angle velocities) in terms of learning time, policy robustness, motion quality, and policy query rates. Our results are evaluated on a gait-cycle imitation task for multiple planar articulated figures and multiple gaits. We demonstrate that the local feedback provided by higher-level action parameterizations can significantly impact the learning, robustness, and quality of the resulting policies. 

Title: Instance Segmentation of Visible and Occluded Regions for Finding and Picking Target from a Pile of Objects
Abstract:  We present a robotic system for picking a target from a pile of objects that is capable of finding and grasping the target object by removing obstacles in the appropriate order. The fundamental idea is to segment instances with both visible and occluded masks, which we call `instance occlusion segmentation'. To achieve this, we extend an existing instance segmentation model with a novel `relook' architecture, in which the model explicitly learns the inter-instance relationship. Also, by using image synthesis, we make the system capable of handling new objects without human annotations. The experimental results show the effectiveness of the relook architecture when compared with a conventional model and of the image synthesis when compared to a human-annotated dataset. We also demonstrate the capability of our system to achieve picking a target in a cluttered environment with a real robot. 

Title: Decoupling feature extraction from policy learning: assessing benefits of state representation learning in goal based robotics
Abstract:  Scaling end-to-end reinforcement learning to control real robots from vision presents a series of challenges, in particular in terms of sample efficiency. Against end-to-end learning, state representation learning can help learn a compact, efficient and relevant representation of states that speeds up policy learning, reducing the number of samples needed, and that is easier to interpret. We evaluate several state representation learning methods on goal based robotics tasks and propose a new unsupervised model that stacks representations and combines strengths of several of these approaches. This method encodes all the relevant features, performs on par or better than end-to-end learning with better sample efficiency, and is robust to hyper-parameters change. 

Title: A Learning-Based Framework for Two-Dimensional Vehicle Maneuver Prediction over V2V Networks
Abstract:  Situational awareness in vehicular networks could be substantially improved utilizing reliable trajectory prediction methods. More precise situational awareness, in turn, results in notably better performance of critical safety applications, such as Forward Collision Warning (FCW), as well as comfort applications like Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control (CACC). Therefore, vehicle trajectory prediction problem needs to be deeply investigated in order to come up with an end to end framework with enough precision required by the safety applications' controllers. This problem has been tackled in the literature using different methods. However, machine learning, which is a promising and emerging field with remarkable potential for time series prediction, has not been explored enough for this purpose. In this paper, a two-layer neural network-based system is developed which predicts the future values of vehicle parameters, such as velocity, acceleration, and yaw rate, in the first layer and then predicts the two-dimensional, i.e. longitudinal and lateral, trajectory points based on the first layer's outputs. The performance of the proposed framework has been evaluated in realistic cut-in scenarios from Safety Pilot Model Deployment (SPMD) dataset and the results show a noticeable improvement in the prediction accuracy in comparison with the kinematics model which is the dominant employed model by the automotive industry. Both ideal and nonideal communication circumstances have been investigated for our system evaluation. For non-ideal case, an estimation step is included in the framework before the parameter prediction block to handle the drawbacks of packet drops or sensor failures and reconstruct the time series of vehicle parameters at a desirable frequency. 

Title: Exploiting Ergonomic Priors in Human-to-Robot Task Transfer
Abstract:  In recent years, there has been a booming shift in the development of versatile, autonomous robots by introducing means to intuitively teach robots task-oriented behaviour by demonstration. In this paper, a method based on programming by demonstration is proposed to learn null space policies from constrained motion data. The main advantage to using this is generalisation of a task by retargeting a systems redundancy as well as the capability to fully replace an entire system with another of varying link number and lengths while still accurately repeating a task subject to the same constraints. The effectiveness of the method has been demonstrated in a 3-link simulation and a real world experiment using a human subject as the demonstrator and is verified through task reproduction on a 7DoF physical robot. In simulation, the method works accurately with even as little as five data points producing errors less than 10^-14. The approach is shown to outperform the current state-of-the-art approach in a simulated 3DoF robot manipulator control problem where motions are reproduced using learnt constraints. Retargeting of a systems null space component is also demonstrated in a task where controlling how redundancy is resolved allows for obstacle avoidance. Finally, the approach is verified in a real world experiment using demonstrations from a human subject where the learnt task space trajectory is transferred onto a 7DoF physical robot of a different embodiment. 

Title: PrimA6D: Rotational Primitive Reconstruction for Enhanced and Robust 6D Pose Estimation
Abstract:  In this paper, we introduce a rotational primitive prediction based 6D object pose estimation using a single image as an input. We solve for the 6D object pose of a known object relative to the camera using a single image with occlusion. Many recent state-of-the-art (SOTA) two-step approaches have exploited image keypoints extraction followed by PnP regression for pose estimation. Instead of relying on bounding box or keypoints on the object, we propose to learn orientation-induced primitive so as to achieve the pose estimation accuracy regardless of the object size. We leverage a Variational AutoEncoder (VAE) to learn this underlying primitive and its associated keypoints. The keypoints inferred from the reconstructed primitive image are then used to regress the rotation using PnP. Lastly, we compute the translation in a separate localization module to complete the entire 6D pose estimation. When evaluated over public datasets, the proposed method yields a notable improvement over the LINEMOD, the Occlusion LINEMOD, and the YCB-Video dataset. We further provide a synthetic-only trained case presenting comparable performance to the existing methods which require real images in the training phase. 

Title: NAVREN-RL: Learning to fly in real environment via end-to-end deep reinforcement learning using monocular images
Abstract:  We present NAVREN-RL, an approach to NAVigate an unmanned aerial vehicle in an indoor Real ENvironment via end-to-end reinforcement learning RL. A suitable reward function is designed keeping in mind the cost and weight constraints for micro drone with minimum number of sensing modalities. Collection of small number of expert data and knowledge based data aggregation is integrated into the RL process to aid convergence. Experimentation is carried out on a Parrot AR drone in different indoor arenas and the results are compared with other baseline technologies. We demonstrate how the drone successfully avoids obstacles and navigates across different arenas. 

Title: Shape Complementarity Analysis for Objects of Arbitrary Shape
Abstract:  The basic problem of shape complementarity analysis appears fundamental to applications as diverse as mechanical design, assembly automation, robot motion planning, micro- and nano-fabrication, protein-ligand binding, and rational drug design. However, the current challenge lies in the lack of a general mathematical formulation that applies to objects of arbitrary shape. We propose that a measure of shape complementarity can be obtained from the extent of approximate overlap between shape skeletons. A space-continuous implicit generalization of the skeleton, called the skeletal density function (SDF) is defined over the Euclidean space that contains the individual assembly partners. The SDF shape descriptors capture the essential features that are relevant to proper contact alignment, and are considerably more robust than the conventional explicit skeletal representations. We express the shape complementarity score as a convolution of the individual SDFs. The problem then breaks down to a global optimization of the score over the configuration space of spatial relations, which can be efficiently implemented using fast Fourier transforms (FFTs) on nonequispaced samples. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the scoring approach for several examples from 2D peg-in-hole alignment to more complex 3D examples in mechanical assembly and protein docking. We show that the proposed method is reliable, inherently robust against small perturbations, and effective in steering gradient-based optimization. 

Title: Learning agent's spatial configuration from sensorimotor invariants
Abstract:  The design of robotic systems is largely dictated by our purely human intuition about how we perceive the world. This intuition has been proven incorrect with regard to a number of critical issues, such as visual change blindness. In order to develop truly autonomous robots, we must step away from this intuition and let robotic agents develop their own way of perceiving. The robot should start from scratch and gradually develop perceptual notions, under no prior assumptions, exclusively by looking into its sensorimotor experience and identifying repetitive patterns and invariants. One of the most fundamental perceptual notions, space, cannot be an exception to this requirement. In this paper we look into the prerequisites for the emergence of simplified spatial notions on the basis of a robot's sensorimotor flow. We show that the notion of space as environment-independent cannot be deduced solely from exteroceptive information, which is highly variable and is mainly determined by the contents of the environment. The environment-independent definition of space can be approached by looking into the functions that link the motor commands to changes in exteroceptive inputs. In a sufficiently rich environment, the kernels of these functions correspond uniquely to the spatial configuration of the agent's exteroceptors. We simulate a redundant robotic arm with a retina installed at its end-point and show how this agent can learn the configuration space of its retina. The resulting manifold has the topology of the Cartesian product of a plane and a circle, and corresponds to the planar position and orientation of the retina. 

Title: Deep Reinforcement-Learning-based Driving Policy for Autonomous Road Vehicles
Abstract:  In this work the problem of path planning for an autonomous vehicle that moves on a freeway is considered. The most common approaches that are used to address this problem are based on optimal control methods, which make assumptions about the model of the environment and the system dynamics. On the contrary, this work proposes the development of a driving policy based on reinforcement learning. In this way, the proposed driving policy makes minimal or no assumptions about the environment, since a priori knowledge about the system dynamics is not required. Driving scenarios where the road is occupied both by autonomous and manual driving vehicles are considered. To the best of our knowledge, this is one of the first approaches that propose a reinforcement learning driving policy for mixed driving environments. The derived reinforcement learning policy, firstly, is compared against an optimal policy derived via dynamic programming, and, secondly, its efficiency is evaluated under realistic scenarios generated by the established SUMO microscopic traffic flow simulator. Finally, some initial results regarding the effect of autonomous vehicles' behavior on the overall traffic flow are presented. 

Title: Watch-Bot: Unsupervised Learning for Reminding Humans of Forgotten Actions
Abstract:  We present a robotic system that watches a human using a Kinect v2 RGB-D sensor, detects what he forgot to do while performing an activity, and if necessary reminds the person using a laser pointer to point out the related object. Our simple setup can be easily deployed on any assistive robot. Our approach is based on a learning algorithm trained in a purely unsupervised setting, which does not require any human annotations. This makes our approach scalable and applicable to variant scenarios. Our model learns the action/object co-occurrence and action temporal relations in the activity, and uses the learned rich relationships to infer the forgotten action and the related object. We show that our approach not only improves the unsupervised action segmentation and action cluster assignment performance, but also effectively detects the forgotten actions on a challenging human activity RGB-D video dataset. In robotic experiments, we show that our robot is able to remind people of forgotten actions successfully. 

Title: Hidden Markov Random Field Iterative Closest Point
Abstract:  When registering point clouds resolved from an underlying 2-D pixel structure, such as those resulting from structured light and flash LiDAR sensors, or stereo reconstruction, it is expected that some points in one cloud do not have corresponding points in the other cloud, and that these would occur together, such as along an edge of the depth map. In this work, a hidden Markov random field model is used to capture this prior within the framework of the iterative closest point algorithm. The EM algorithm is used to estimate the distribution parameters and the hidden component memberships. Experiments are presented demonstrating that this method outperforms several other outlier rejection methods when the point clouds have low or moderate overlap. 

Title: Conditional Generative Neural System for Probabilistic Trajectory Prediction
Abstract:  Effective understanding of the environment and accurate trajectory prediction of surrounding dynamic obstacles are critical for intelligent systems such as autonomous vehicles and wheeled mobile robotics navigating in complex scenarios to achieve safe and high-quality decision making, motion planning and control. Due to the uncertain nature of the future, it is desired to make inference from a probability perspective instead of deterministic prediction. In this paper, we propose a conditional generative neural system (CGNS) for probabilistic trajectory prediction to approximate the data distribution, with which realistic, feasible and diverse future trajectory hypotheses can be sampled. The system combines the strengths of conditional latent space learning and variational divergence minimization, and leverages both static context and interaction information with soft attention mechanisms. We also propose a regularization method for incorporating soft constraints into deep neural networks with differentiable barrier functions, which can regulate and push the generated samples into the feasible regions. The proposed system is evaluated on several public benchmark datasets for pedestrian trajectory prediction and a roundabout naturalistic driving dataset collected by ourselves. The experimental results demonstrate that our model achieves better performance than various baseline approaches in terms of prediction accuracy. 

Title: Voxel Map for Visual SLAM
Abstract:  In modern visual SLAM systems, it is a standard practice to retrieve potential candidate map points from overlapping keyframes for further feature matching or direct tracking. In this work, we argue that keyframes are not the optimal choice for this task, due to several inherent limitations, such as weak geometric reasoning and poor scalability. We propose a voxel-map representation to efficiently retrieve map points for visual SLAM. In particular, we organize the map points in a regular voxel grid. Visible points from a camera pose are queried by sampling the camera frustum in a raycasting manner, which can be done in constant time using an efficient voxel hashing method. Compared with keyframes, the retrieved points using our method are geometrically guaranteed to fall in the camera field-of-view, and occluded points can be identified and removed to a certain extend. This method also naturally scales up to large scenes and complicated multicamera configurations. Experimental results show that our voxel map representation is as efficient as a keyframe map with 5 keyframes and provides significantly higher localization accuracy (average 46% improvement in RMSE) on the EuRoC dataset. The proposed voxel-map representation is a general approach to a fundamental functionality in visual SLAM and widely applicable. 

Title: AirCapRL: Autonomous Aerial Human Motion Capture using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  In this letter, we introduce a deep reinforcement learning (RL) based multi-robot formation controller for the task of autonomous aerial human motion capture (MoCap). We focus on vision-based MoCap, where the objective is to estimate the trajectory of body pose and shape of a single moving person using multiple micro aerial vehicles. State-of-the-art solutions to this problem are based on classical control methods, which depend on hand-crafted system and observation models. Such models are difficult to derive and generalize across different systems. Moreover, the non-linearity and non-convexities of these models lead to sub-optimal controls. In our work, we formulate this problem as a sequential decision making task to achieve the vision-based motion capture objectives, and solve it using a deep neural network-based RL method. We leverage proximal policy optimization (PPO) to train a stochastic decentralized control policy for formation control. The neural network is trained in a parallelized setup in synthetic environments. We performed extensive simulation experiments to validate our approach. Finally, real-robot experiments demonstrate that our policies generalize to real world conditions. Video Link: https://bit.ly/38SJfjo Supplementary: https://bit.ly/3evfo1O 

Title: PPF-FoldNet: Unsupervised Learning of Rotation Invariant 3D Local Descriptors
Abstract:  We present PPF-FoldNet for unsupervised learning of 3D local descriptors on pure point cloud geometry. Based on the folding-based auto-encoding of well known point pair features, PPF-FoldNet offers many desirable properties: it necessitates neither supervision, nor a sensitive local reference frame, benefits from point-set sparsity, is end-to-end, fast, and can extract powerful rotation invariant descriptors. Thanks to a novel feature visualization, its evolution can be monitored to provide interpretable insights. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that despite having six degree-of-freedom invariance and lack of training labels, our network achieves state of the art results in standard benchmark datasets and outperforms its competitors when rotations and varying point densities are present. PPF-FoldNet achieves $9\%$ higher recall on standard benchmarks, $23\%$ higher recall when rotations are introduced into the same datasets and finally, a margin of $>35\%$ is attained when point density is significantly decreased. 

Title: Lane Change Decision-making through Deep Reinforcement Learning with Rule-based Constraints
Abstract:  Autonomous driving decision-making is a great challenge due to the complexity and uncertainty of the traffic environment. Combined with the rule-based constraints, a Deep Q-Network (DQN) based method is applied for autonomous driving lane change decision-making task in this study. Through the combination of high-level lateral decision-making and low-level rule-based trajectory modification, a safe and efficient lane change behavior can be achieved. With the setting of our state representation and reward function, the trained agent is able to take appropriate actions in a real-world-like simulator. The generated policy is evaluated on the simulator for 10 times, and the results demonstrate that the proposed rule-based DQN method outperforms the rule-based approach and the DQN method. 

Title: Real-time 3D Pose Estimation with a Monocular Camera Using Deep Learning and Object Priors On an Autonomous Racecar
Abstract:  We propose a complete pipeline that allows object detection and simultaneously estimate the pose of these multiple object instances using just a single image. A novel "keypoint regression" scheme with a cross-ratio term is introduced that exploits prior information about the object's shape and size to regress and find specific feature points. Further, a priori 3D information about the object is used to match 2D-3D correspondences and accurately estimate object positions up to a distance of 15m. A detailed discussion of the results and an in-depth analysis of the pipeline is presented. The pipeline runs efficiently on a low-powered Jetson TX2 and is deployed as part of the perception pipeline on a real-time autonomous vehicle cruising at a top speed of 54 km/hr. 

Title: ATG-PVD: Ticketing Parking Violations on A Drone
Abstract:  In this paper, we introduce a novel suspect-and-investigate framework, which can be easily embedded in a drone for automated parking violation detection (PVD). Our proposed framework consists of: 1) SwiftFlow, an efficient and accurate convolutional neural network (CNN) for unsupervised optical flow estimation; 2) Flow-RCNN, a flow-guided CNN for car detection and classification; and 3) an illegally parked car (IPC) candidate investigation module developed based on visual SLAM. The proposed framework was successfully embedded in a drone from ATG Robotics. The experimental results demonstrate that, firstly, our proposed SwiftFlow outperforms all other state-of-the-art unsupervised optical flow estimation approaches in terms of both speed and accuracy; secondly, IPC candidates can be effectively and efficiently detected by our proposed Flow-RCNN, with a better performance than our baseline network, Faster-RCNN; finally, the actual IPCs can be successfully verified by our investigation module after drone re-localization. 

Title: Antipodal Robotic Grasping using Generative Residual Convolutional Neural Network
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a modular robotic system to tackle the problem of generating and performing antipodal robotic grasps for unknown objects from n-channel image of the scene. We propose a novel Generative Residual Convolutional Neural Network (GR-ConvNet) model that can generate robust antipodal grasps from n-channel input at real-time speeds (~20ms). We evaluate the proposed model architecture on standard datasets and a diverse set of household objects. We achieved state-of-the-art accuracy of 97.7% and 94.6% on Cornell and Jacquard grasping datasets respectively. We also demonstrate a grasp success rate of 95.4% and 93% on household and adversarial objects respectively using a 7 DoF robotic arm. 

Title: ORB-SLAM: a Versatile and Accurate Monocular SLAM System
Abstract:  This paper presents ORB-SLAM, a feature-based monocular SLAM system that operates in real time, in small and large, indoor and outdoor environments. The system is robust to severe motion clutter, allows wide baseline loop closing and relocalization, and includes full automatic initialization. Building on excellent algorithms of recent years, we designed from scratch a novel system that uses the same features for all SLAM tasks: tracking, mapping, relocalization, and loop closing. A survival of the fittest strategy that selects the points and keyframes of the reconstruction leads to excellent robustness and generates a compact and trackable map that only grows if the scene content changes, allowing lifelong operation. We present an exhaustive evaluation in 27 sequences from the most popular datasets. ORB-SLAM achieves unprecedented performance with respect to other state-of-the-art monocular SLAM approaches. For the benefit of the community, we make the source code public. 

Title: Learning to Poke by Poking: Experiential Learning of Intuitive Physics
Abstract:  We investigate an experiential learning paradigm for acquiring an internal model of intuitive physics. Our model is evaluated on a real-world robotic manipulation task that requires displacing objects to target locations by poking. The robot gathered over 400 hours of experience by executing more than 100K pokes on different objects. We propose a novel approach based on deep neural networks for modeling the dynamics of robot's interactions directly from images, by jointly estimating forward and inverse models of dynamics. The inverse model objective provides supervision to construct informative visual features, which the forward model can then predict and in turn regularize the feature space for the inverse model. The interplay between these two objectives creates useful, accurate models that can then be used for multi-step decision making. This formulation has the additional benefit that it is possible to learn forward models in an abstract feature space and thus alleviate the need of predicting pixels. Our experiments show that this joint modeling approach outperforms alternative methods. 

Title: Real-Time Dense Stereo Matching With ELAS on FPGA Accelerated Embedded Devices
Abstract:  For many applications in low-power real-time robotics, stereo cameras are the sensors of choice for depth perception as they are typically cheaper and more versatile than their active counterparts. Their biggest drawback, however, is that they do not directly sense depth maps; instead, these must be estimated through data-intensive processes. Therefore, appropriate algorithm selection plays an important role in achieving the desired performance characteristics. Motivated by applications in space and mobile robotics, we implement and evaluate a FPGA-accelerated adaptation of the ELAS algorithm. Despite offering one of the best trade-offs between efficiency and accuracy, ELAS has only been shown to run at 1.5-3 fps on a high-end CPU. Our system preserves all intriguing properties of the original algorithm, such as the slanted plane priors, but can achieve a frame rate of 47fps whilst consuming under 4W of power. Unlike previous FPGA based designs, we take advantage of both components on the CPU/FPGA System-on-Chip to showcase the strategy necessary to accelerate more complex and computationally diverse algorithms for such low power, real-time systems. 

Title: Novelty Search makes Evolvability Inevitable
Abstract:  Evolvability is an important feature that impacts the ability of evolutionary processes to find interesting novel solutions and to deal with changing conditions of the problem to solve. The estimation of evolvability is not straightforward and is generally too expensive to be directly used as selective pressure in the evolutionary process. Indirectly promoting evolvability as a side effect of other easier and faster to compute selection pressures would thus be advantageous. In an unbounded behavior space, it has already been shown that evolvable individuals naturally appear and tend to be selected as they are more likely to invade empty behavior niches. Evolvability is thus a natural byproduct of the search in this context. However, practical agents and environments often impose limits on the reach-able behavior space. How do these boundaries impact evolvability? In this context, can evolvability still be promoted without explicitly rewarding it? We show that Novelty Search implicitly creates a pressure for high evolvability even in bounded behavior spaces, and explore the reasons for such a behavior. More precisely we show that, throughout the search, the dynamic evaluation of novelty rewards individuals which are very mobile in the behavior space, which in turn promotes evolvability. 

Title: SilhoNet: An RGB Method for 6D Object Pose Estimation
Abstract:  Autonomous robot manipulation involves estimating the translation and orientation of the object to be manipulated as a 6-degree-of-freedom (6D) pose. Methods using RGB-D data have shown great success in solving this problem. However, there are situations where cost constraints or the working environment may limit the use of RGB-D sensors. When limited to monocular camera data only, the problem of object pose estimation is very challenging. In this work, we introduce a novel method called SilhoNet that predicts 6D object pose from monocular images. We use a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) pipeline that takes in Region of Interest (ROI) proposals to simultaneously predict an intermediate silhouette representation for objects with an associated occlusion mask and a 3D translation vector. The 3D orientation is then regressed from the predicted silhouettes. We show that our method achieves better overall performance on the YCB-Video dataset than two state-of-the art networks for 6D pose estimation from monocular image input. 

Title: Bayesian Optimization with Safety Constraints: Safe and Automatic Parameter Tuning in Robotics
Abstract:  Robotic algorithms typically depend on various parameters, the choice of which significantly affects the robot's performance. While an initial guess for the parameters may be obtained from dynamic models of the robot, parameters are usually tuned manually on the real system to achieve the best performance. Optimization algorithms, such as Bayesian optimization, have been used to automate this process. However, these methods may evaluate unsafe parameters during the optimization process that lead to safety-critical system failures. Recently, a safe Bayesian optimization algorithm, called SafeOpt, has been developed, which guarantees that the performance of the system never falls below a critical value; that is, safety is defined based on the performance function. However, coupling performance and safety is often not desirable in robotics. For example, high-gain controllers might achieve low average tracking error (performance), but can overshoot and violate input constraints. In this paper, we present a generalized algorithm that allows for multiple safety constraints separate from the objective. Given an initial set of safe parameters, the algorithm maximizes performance but only evaluates parameters that satisfy safety for all constraints with high probability. To this end, it carefully explores the parameter space by exploiting regularity assumptions in terms of a Gaussian process prior. Moreover, we show how context variables can be used to safely transfer knowledge to new situations and tasks. We provide a theoretical analysis and demonstrate that the proposed algorithm enables fast, automatic, and safe optimization of tuning parameters in experiments on a quadrotor vehicle. 

Title: ChainQueen: A Real-Time Differentiable Physical Simulator for Soft Robotics
Abstract:  Physical simulators have been widely used in robot planning and control. Among them, differentiable simulators are particularly favored, as they can be incorporated into gradient-based optimization algorithms that are efficient in solving inverse problems such as optimal control and motion planning. Simulating deformable objects is, however, more challenging compared to rigid body dynamics. The underlying physical laws of deformable objects are more complex, and the resulting systems have orders of magnitude more degrees of freedom and therefore they are significantly more computationally expensive to simulate. Computing gradients with respect to physical design or controller parameters is typically even more computationally challenging. In this paper, we propose a real-time, differentiable hybrid Lagrangian-Eulerian physical simulator for deformable objects, ChainQueen, based on the Moving Least Squares Material Point Method (MLS-MPM). MLS-MPM can simulate deformable objects including contact and can be seamlessly incorporated into inference, control and co-design systems. We demonstrate that our simulator achieves high precision in both forward simulation and backward gradient computation. We have successfully employed it in a diverse set of control tasks for soft robots, including problems with nearly 3,000 decision variables. 

Title: Dictionary Learning for Robotic Grasp Recognition and Detection
Abstract:  The ability to grasp ordinary and potentially never-seen objects is an important feature in both domestic and industrial robotics. For a system to accomplish this, it must autonomously identify grasping locations by using information from various sensors, such as Microsoft Kinect 3D camera. Despite numerous progress, significant work still remains to be done in this field. To this effect, we propose a dictionary learning and sparse representation (DLSR) framework for representing RGBD images from 3D sensors in the context of determining such good grasping locations. In contrast to previously proposed approaches that relied on sophisticated regularization or very large datasets, the derived perception system has a fast training phase and can work with small datasets. It is also theoretically founded for dealing with masked-out entries, which are common with 3D sensors. We contribute by presenting a comparative study of several DLSR approach combinations for recognizing and detecting grasp candidates on the standard Cornell dataset. Importantly, experimental results show a performance improvement of 1.69% in detection and 3.16% in recognition over current state-of-the-art convolutional neural network (CNN). Even though nowadays most popular vision-based approach is CNN, this suggests that DLSR is also a viable alternative with interesting advantages that CNN has not. 

Title: Transferable Force-Torque Dynamics Model for Peg-in-hole Task
Abstract:  We present a learning-based force-torque dynamics to achieve model-based control for contact-rich peg-in-hole task using force-only inputs. Learning the force-torque dynamics is challenging because of the ambiguity of the low-dimensional 6-d force signal and the requirement of excessive training data. To tackle these problems, we propose a multi-pose force-torque state representation, based on which a dynamics model is learned with the data generated in a sample-efficient offline fashion. In addition, by training the dynamics model with peg-and-holes of various shapes, scales, and elasticities, the model could quickly transfer to new peg-and-holes after a small number of trials. Extensive experiments show that our dynamics model could adapt to unseen peg-and-holes with 70% fewer samples required compared to learning from scratch. Along with the learned dynamics, model predictive control and model-based reinforcement learning policies achieve over 80% insertion success rate. Our video is available at https://youtu.be/ZAqldpVZgm4. 

Title: Neural Collision Clearance Estimator for Batched Motion Planning
Abstract:  We present a neural network collision checking heuristic, ClearanceNet, and a planning algorithm, CN-RRT. ClearanceNet learns to predict separation distance (minimum distance between robot and workspace) with respect to a workspace. CN-RRT then efficiently computes a motion plan by leveraging three key features of ClearanceNet. First, CN-RRT explores the space by expanding multiple nodes at the same time, processing batches of thousands of collision checks. Second, CN-RRT adaptively relaxes its clearance requirements for more difficult problems. Third, to repair errors, CN-RRT shifts its nodes in the direction of ClearanceNet's gradient and repairs any residual errors with a traditional RRT, thus maintaining theoretical probabilistic completeness guarantees. In configuration spaces with up to 30 degrees of freedom, ClearanceNet achieves 845x speedup over traditional collision detection methods, while CN-RRT accelerates motion planning by up to 42% over a baseline and finds paths up to 36% more efficient. Experiments on an 11 degree of freedom robot in a cluttered environment confirm the method's feasibility on real robots. 

Title: GCNv2: Efficient Correspondence Prediction for Real-Time SLAM
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a deep learning-based network, GCNv2, for generation of keypoints and descriptors. GCNv2 is built on our previous method, GCN, a network trained for 3D projective geometry. GCNv2 is designed with a binary descriptor vector as the ORB feature so that it can easily replace ORB in systems such as ORB-SLAM2. GCNv2 significantly improves the computational efficiency over GCN that was only able to run on desktop hardware. We show how a modified version of ORB-SLAM2 using GCNv2 features runs on a Jetson TX2, an embedded low-power platform. Experimental results show that GCNv2 retains comparable accuracy as GCN and that it is robust enough to use for control of a flying drone. 

Title: Improved and Scalable Online Learning of Spatial Concepts and Language Models with Mapping
Abstract:  We propose a novel online learning algorithm, called SpCoSLAM 2.0, for spatial concepts and lexical acquisition with high accuracy and scalability. Previously, we proposed SpCoSLAM as an online learning algorithm based on unsupervised Bayesian probabilistic model that integrates multimodal place categorization, lexical acquisition, and SLAM. However, our original algorithm had limited estimation accuracy owing to the influence of the early stages of learning, and increased computational complexity with added training data. Therefore, we introduce techniques such as fixed-lag rejuvenation to reduce the calculation time while maintaining an accuracy higher than that of the original algorithm. The results show that, in terms of estimation accuracy, the proposed algorithm exceeds the original algorithm and is comparable to batch learning. In addition, the calculation time of the proposed algorithm does not depend on the amount of training data and becomes constant for each step of the scalable algorithm. Our approach will contribute to the realization of long-term spatial language interactions between humans and robots. 

Title: Uncertainty-Aware Driver Trajectory Prediction at Urban Intersections
Abstract:  Predicting the motion of a driver's vehicle is crucial for advanced driving systems, enabling detection of potential risks towards shared control between the driver and automation systems. In this paper, we propose a variational neural network approach that predicts future driver trajectory distributions for the vehicle based on multiple sensors. Our predictor generates both a conditional variational distribution of future trajectories, as well as a confidence estimate for different time horizons. Our approach allows us to handle inherently uncertain situations, and reason about information gain from each input, as well as combine our model with additional predictors, creating a mixture of experts. We show how to augment the variational predictor with a physics-based predictor, and based on their confidence estimations, improve overall system performance. The resulting combined model is aware of the uncertainty associated with its predictions, which can help the vehicle autonomy to make decisions with more confidence. The model is validated on real-world urban driving data collected in multiple locations. This validation demonstrates that our approach improves the prediction error of a physics-based model by 25% while successfully identifying the uncertain cases with 82% accuracy. 

Title: ALFRED: A Benchmark for Interpreting Grounded Instructions for Everyday Tasks
Abstract:  We present ALFRED (Action Learning From Realistic Environments and Directives), a benchmark for learning a mapping from natural language instructions and egocentric vision to sequences of actions for household tasks. ALFRED includes long, compositional tasks with non-reversible state changes to shrink the gap between research benchmarks and real-world applications. ALFRED consists of expert demonstrations in interactive visual environments for 25k natural language directives. These directives contain both high-level goals like "Rinse off a mug and place it in the coffee maker." and low-level language instructions like "Walk to the coffee maker on the right." ALFRED tasks are more complex in terms of sequence length, action space, and language than existing vision-and-language task datasets. We show that a baseline model based on recent embodied vision-and-language tasks performs poorly on ALFRED, suggesting that there is significant room for developing innovative grounded visual language understanding models with this benchmark. 

Title: A Framework for Depth Estimation and Relative Localization of Ground Robots using Computer Vision
Abstract:  The 3D depth estimation and relative pose estimation problem within a decentralized architecture is a challenging problem that arises in missions that require coordination among multiple vision-controlled robots. The depth estimation problem aims at recovering the 3D information of the environment. The relative localization problem consists of estimating the relative pose between two robots, by sensing each other's pose or sharing information about the perceived environment. Most solutions for these problems use a set of discrete data without taking into account the chronological order of the events. This paper builds on recent results on continuous estimation to propose a framework that estimates the depth and relative pose between two non-holonomic vehicles. The basic idea consists in estimating the depth of the points by explicitly considering the dynamics of the camera mounted on a ground robot, and feeding the estimates of 3D points observed by both cameras in a filter that computes the relative pose between the robots. We evaluate the convergence for a set of simulated scenarios and show experimental results validating the proposed framework. 

Title: SPASS: Scientific Prominence Active Search System with Deep Image Captioning Network
Abstract:  Planetary exploration missions with Mars rovers are complicated, which generally require elaborated task planning by human experts, from the path to take to the images to capture. NASA has been using this process to acquire over 22 million images from the planet Mars. In order to improve the degree of automation and thus efficiency in this process, we propose a system for planetary rovers to actively search for prominence of prespecified scientific features in captured images. Scientists can prespecify such search tasks in natural language and upload them to a rover, on which the deployed system constantly captions captured images with a deep image captioning network and compare the auto-generated captions to the prespecified search tasks by certain metrics so as to prioritize those images for transmission. As a beneficial side effect, the proposed system can also be deployed to ground-based planetary data systems as a content-based search engine. 

Title: Inverse Reinforcement Learning Under Noisy Observations
Abstract:  We consider the problem of performing inverse reinforcement learning when the trajectory of the expert is not perfectly observed by the learner. Instead, a noisy continuous-time observation of the trajectory is provided to the learner. This problem exhibits wide-ranging applications and the specific application we consider here is the scenario in which the learner seeks to penetrate a perimeter patrolled by a robot. The learner's field of view is limited due to which it cannot observe the patroller's complete trajectory. Instead, we allow the learner to listen to the expert's movement sound, which it can also use to estimate the expert's state and action using an observation model. We treat the expert's state and action as hidden data and present an algorithm based on expectation maximization and maximum entropy principle to solve the non-linear, non-convex problem. Related work considers discrete-time observations and an observation model that does not include actions. In contrast, our technique takes expectations over both state and action of the expert, enabling learning even in the presence of extreme noise and broader applications. 

Title: Use the Force, Luke! Learning to Predict Physical Forces by Simulating Effects
Abstract:  When we humans look at a video of human-object interaction, we can not only infer what is happening but we can even extract actionable information and imitate those interactions. On the other hand, current recognition or geometric approaches lack the physicality of action representation. In this paper, we take a step towards a more physical understanding of actions. We address the problem of inferring contact points and the physical forces from videos of humans interacting with objects. One of the main challenges in tackling this problem is obtaining ground-truth labels for forces. We sidestep this problem by instead using a physics simulator for supervision. Specifically, we use a simulator to predict effects and enforce that estimated forces must lead to the same effect as depicted in the video. Our quantitative and qualitative results show that (a) we can predict meaningful forces from videos whose effects lead to accurate imitation of the motions observed, (b) by jointly optimizing for contact point and force prediction, we can improve the performance on both tasks in comparison to independent training, and (c) we can learn a representation from this model that generalizes to novel objects using few shot examples. 

Title: Rapid Probabilistic Interest Learning from Domain-Specific Pairwise Image Comparisons
Abstract:  A great deal of work aims to discover large general purpose models of image interest or memorability for visual search and information retrieval. This paper argues that image interest is often domain and user specific, and that efficient mechanisms for learning about this domain-specific image interest as quickly as possible, while limiting the amount of data-labelling required, are often more useful to end-users. This work uses pairwise image comparisons to reduce the labelling burden on these users, and introduces an image interest estimation approach that performs similarly to recent data hungry deep learning approaches trained using pairwise ranking losses. Here, we use a Gaussian process model to interpolate image interest inferred using a Bayesian ranking approach over image features extracted using a pre-trained convolutional neural network. Results show that fitting a Gaussian process in high-dimensional image feature space is not only computationally feasible, but also effective across a broad range of domains. The proposed probabilistic interest estimation approach produces image interests paired with uncertainties that can be used to identify images for which additional labelling is required and measure inference convergence, allowing for sample efficient active model training. Importantly, the probabilistic formulation allows for effective visual search and information retrieval when limited labelling data is available. 

Title: Discrete Residual Flow for Probabilistic Pedestrian Behavior Prediction
Abstract:  Self-driving vehicles plan around both static and dynamic objects, applying predictive models of behavior to estimate future locations of the objects in the environment. However, future behavior is inherently uncertain, and models of motion that produce deterministic outputs are limited to short timescales. Particularly difficult is the prediction of human behavior. In this work, we propose the discrete residual flow network (DRF-Net), a convolutional neural network for human motion prediction that captures the uncertainty inherent in long-range motion forecasting. In particular, our learned network effectively captures multimodal posteriors over future human motion by predicting and updating a discretized distribution over spatial locations. We compare our model against several strong competitors and show that our model outperforms all baselines. 

Title: Camera-Based Adaptive Trajectory Guidance via Neural Networks
Abstract:  In this paper, we introduce a novel method to capture visual trajectories for navigating an indoor robot in dynamic settings using streaming image data. First, an image processing pipeline is proposed to accurately segment trajectories from noisy backgrounds. Next, the captured trajectories are used to design, train, and compare two neural network architectures for predicting acceleration and steering commands for a line following robot over a continuous space in real time. Lastly, experimental results demonstrate the performance of the neural networks versus human teleoperation of the robot and the viability of the system in environments with occlusions and/or low-light conditions. 

Title: Common Metrics to Benchmark Human-Machine Teams (HMT): A Review
Abstract:  A significant amount of work is invested in human-machine teaming (HMT) across multiple fields. Accurately and effectively measuring system performance of an HMT is crucial for moving the design of these systems forward. Metrics are the enabling tools to devise a benchmark in any system and serve as an evaluation platform for assessing the performance, along with the verification and validation, of a system. Currently, there is no agreed-upon set of benchmark metrics for developing HMT systems. Therefore, identification and classification of common metrics are imperative to create a benchmark in the HMT field. The key focus of this review is to conduct a detailed survey aimed at identification of metrics employed in different segments of HMT and to determine the common metrics that can be used in the future to benchmark HMTs. We have organized this review as follows: identification of metrics used in HMTs until now, and classification based on functionality and measuring techniques. Additionally, we have also attempted to analyze all the identified metrics in detail while classifying them as theoretical, applied, real-time, non-real-time, measurable, and observable metrics. We conclude this review with a detailed analysis of the identified common metrics along with their usage to benchmark HMTs. 

Title: Neural Path Planning: Fixed Time, Near-Optimal Path Generation via Oracle Imitation
Abstract:  Fast and efficient path generation is critical for robots operating in complex environments. This motion planning problem is often performed in a robot's actuation or configuration space, where popular pathfinding methods such as A*, RRT*, get exponentially more computationally expensive to execute as the dimensionality increases or the spaces become more cluttered and complex. On the other hand, if one were to save the entire set of paths connecting all pair of locations in the configuration space a priori, one would run out of memory very quickly. In this work, we introduce a novel way of producing fast and optimal motion plans for static environments by using a stepping neural network approach, called OracleNet. OracleNet uses Recurrent Neural Networks to determine end-to-end trajectories in an iterative manner that implicitly generates optimal motion plans with minimal loss in performance in a compact form. The algorithm is straightforward in implementation while consistently generating near-optimal paths in a single, iterative, end-to-end roll-out. In practice, OracleNet generally has fixed-time execution regardless of the configuration space complexity while outperforming popular pathfinding algorithms in complex environments and higher dimensions 

Title: Counter-example Guided Learning of Bounds on Environment Behavior
Abstract:  There is a growing interest in building autonomous systems that interact with complex environments. The difficulty associated with obtaining an accurate model for such environments poses a challenge to the task of assessing and guaranteeing the system's performance. We present a data-driven solution that allows for a system to be evaluated for specification conformance without an accurate model of the environment. Our approach involves learning a conservative reactive bound of the environment's behavior using data and specification of the system's desired behavior. First, the approach begins by learning a conservative reactive bound on the environment's actions that captures its possible behaviors with high probability. This bound is then used to assist verification, and if the verification fails under this bound, the algorithm returns counter-examples to show how failure occurs and then uses these to refine the bound. We demonstrate the applicability of the approach through two case-studies: i) verifying controllers for a toy multi-robot system, and ii) verifying an instance of human-robot interaction during a lane-change maneuver given real-world human driving data. 

Title: A Driving Intention Prediction Method Based on Hidden Markov Model for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  In a mixed-traffic scenario where both autonomous vehicles and human-driving vehicles exist, a timely prediction of driving intentions of nearby human-driving vehicles is essential for the safe and efficient driving of an autonomous vehicle. In this paper, a driving intention prediction method based on Hidden Markov Model (HMM) is proposed for autonomous vehicles. HMMs representing different driving intentions are trained and tested with field collected data from a flyover. When training the models, either discrete or continuous characterization of the mobility features of vehicles is applied. Experimental results show that the HMMs trained with the continuous characterization of mobility features can give a higher prediction accuracy when they are used for predicting driving intentions. Moreover, when the surrounding traffic of the vehicle is taken into account, the performances of the proposed prediction method are further improved. 

Title: Scene-level Pose Estimation for Multiple Instances of Densely Packed Objects
Abstract:  This paper introduces key machine learning operations that allow the realization of robust, joint 6D pose estimation of multiple instances of objects either densely packed or in unstructured piles from RGB-D data. The first objective is to learn semantic and instance-boundary detectors without manual labeling. An adversarial training framework in conjunction with physics-based simulation is used to achieve detectors that behave similarly in synthetic and real data. Given the stochastic output of such detectors, candidates for object poses are sampled. The second objective is to automatically learn a single score for each pose candidate that represents its quality in terms of explaining the entire scene via a gradient boosted tree. The proposed method uses features derived from surface and boundary alignment between the observed scene and the object model placed at hypothesized poses. Scene-level, multi-instance pose estimation is then achieved by an integer linear programming process that selects hypotheses that maximize the sum of the learned individual scores, while respecting constraints, such as avoiding collisions. To evaluate this method, a dataset of densely packed objects with challenging setups for state-of-the-art approaches is collected. Experiments on this dataset and a public one show that the method significantly outperforms alternatives in terms of 6D pose accuracy while trained only with synthetic datasets. 

Title: Active Perception and Representation for Robotic Manipulation
Abstract:  The vast majority of visual animals actively control their eyes, heads, and/or bodies to direct their gaze toward different parts of their environment. In contrast, recent applications of reinforcement learning in robotic manipulation employ cameras as passive sensors. These are carefully placed to view a scene from a fixed pose. Active perception allows animals to gather the most relevant information about the world and focus their computational resources where needed. It also enables them to view objects from different distances and viewpoints, providing a rich visual experience from which to learn abstract representations of the environment. Inspired by the primate visual-motor system, we present a framework that leverages the benefits of active perception to accomplish manipulation tasks. Our agent uses viewpoint changes to localize objects, to learn state representations in a self-supervised manner, and to perform goal-directed actions. We apply our model to a simulated grasping task with a 6-DoF action space. Compared to its passive, fixed-camera counterpart, the active model achieves 8% better performance in targeted grasping. Compared to vanilla deep Q-learning algorithms, our model is at least four times more sample-efficient, highlighting the benefits of both active perception and representation learning. 

Title: Momentum-Based Policy Gradient Methods
Abstract:  In the paper, we propose a class of efficient momentum-based policy gradient methods for the model-free reinforcement learning, which use adaptive learning rates and do not require any large batches. Specifically, we propose a fast important-sampling momentum-based policy gradient (IS-MBPG) method based on a new momentum-based variance reduced technique and the importance sampling technique. We also propose a fast Hessian-aided momentum-based policy gradient (HA-MBPG) method based on the momentum-based variance reduced technique and the Hessian-aided technique. Moreover, we prove that both the IS-MBPG and HA-MBPG methods reach the best known sample complexity of $O(\epsilon^{-3})$ for finding an $\epsilon$-stationary point of the non-concave performance function, which only require one trajectory at each iteration. In particular, we present a non-adaptive version of IS-MBPG method, i.e., IS-MBPG*, which also reaches the best known sample complexity of $O(\epsilon^{-3})$ without any large batches. In the experiments, we apply four benchmark tasks to demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithms. 

Title: Learning at the Ends: From Hand to Tool Affordances in Humanoid Robots
Abstract:  One of the open challenges in designing robots that operate successfully in the unpredictable human environment is how to make them able to predict what actions they can perform on objects, and what their effects will be, i.e., the ability to perceive object affordances. Since modeling all the possible world interactions is unfeasible, learning from experience is required, posing the challenge of collecting a large amount of experiences (i.e., training data). Typically, a manipulative robot operates on external objects by using its own hands (or similar end-effectors), but in some cases the use of tools may be desirable, nevertheless, it is reasonable to assume that while a robot can collect many sensorimotor experiences using its own hands, this cannot happen for all possible human-made tools. Therefore, in this paper we investigate the developmental transition from hand to tool affordances: what sensorimotor skills that a robot has acquired with its bare hands can be employed for tool use? By employing a visual and motor imagination mechanism to represent different hand postures compactly, we propose a probabilistic model to learn hand affordances, and we show how this model can generalize to estimate the affordances of previously unseen tools, ultimately supporting planning, decision-making and tool selection tasks in humanoid robots. We present experimental results with the iCub humanoid robot, and we publicly release the collected sensorimotor data in the form of a hand posture affordances dataset. 

Title: Car Monitoring System in Apartment Garages by Small Autonomous Car using Deep Learning
Abstract:  Currently, there is an increase in the number of Peruvian families living in apartments instead of houses for the lots of advantage; However, in some cases there are troubles such as robberies of goods that are usually left at the parking lots or the entrance of strangers that use the tenants parking lots (this last trouble sometimes is related to kidnappings or robberies in building apartments). Due to these problems, the use of a self-driving mini-car is proposed to implement a monitoring system of license plates in an underground garage inside a building using a deep learning model with the aim of recording the vehicles and identifying their owners if they were tenants or not. In addition, the small robot has its own location system using beacons that allow us to identify the position of the parking lot corresponding to each tenant of the building while the mini-car is on its way. Finally, one of the objectives of this work is to build a low-cost mini-robot that would replace expensive cameras or work together in order to keep safe the goods of tenants. 

Title: Self-Supervised Visual Place Recognition Learning in Mobile Robots
Abstract:  Place recognition is a critical component in robot navigation that enables it to re-establish previously visited locations, and simultaneously use this information to correct the drift incurred in its dead-reckoned estimate. In this work, we develop a self-supervised approach to place recognition in robots. The task of visual loop-closure identification is cast as a metric learning problem, where the labels for positive and negative examples of loop-closures can be bootstrapped using a GPS-aided navigation solution that the robot already uses. By leveraging the synchronization between sensors, we show that we are able to learn an appropriate distance metric for arbitrary real-valued image descriptors (including state-of-the-art CNN models), that is specifically geared for visual place recognition in mobile robots. Furthermore, we show that the newly learned embedding can be particularly powerful in disambiguating visual scenes for the task of vision-based loop-closure identification in mobile robots. 

Title: Thinking While Moving: Deep Reinforcement Learning with Concurrent Control
Abstract:  We study reinforcement learning in settings where sampling an action from the policy must be done concurrently with the time evolution of the controlled system, such as when a robot must decide on the next action while still performing the previous action. Much like a person or an animal, the robot must think and move at the same time, deciding on its next action before the previous one has completed. In order to develop an algorithmic framework for such concurrent control problems, we start with a continuous-time formulation of the Bellman equations, and then discretize them in a way that is aware of system delays. We instantiate this new class of approximate dynamic programming methods via a simple architectural extension to existing value-based deep reinforcement learning algorithms. We evaluate our methods on simulated benchmark tasks and a large-scale robotic grasping task where the robot must "think while moving". 

Title: Longitudinal Motion Planning for Autonomous Vehicles and Its Impact on Congestion: A Survey
Abstract:  This paper reviews machine learning methods for the motion planning of autonomous vehicles (AVs), with exclusive focus on the longitudinal behaviors and their impact on traffic congestion. An extensive survey of training data, model input/output, and learning methods for machine learning longitudinal motion planning (mMP) is first presented. Each of those major components is discussed and evaluated from the perspective of congestion impact. The emerging technologies adopted by leading AV giants like Waymo and Tesla are highlighted in our review. We find that: i) the AV industry has been focusing on the long tail problem caused by "corner errors" threatening driving safety, ii) none of the existing public datasets provides sufficient data under congestion scenarios, and iii) although alternative and more advanced learning methods are available in literature, the major mMP method adopted by industry is still behavior cloning (BC). The study also surveys the connections between mMP and traditional car-following (CF) models, and it reveals that: i) the model equivalence only exists in simple settings, ii) studies have shown mMP can significantly outperform CF models in long-term speed prediction, and iii) mMP's string stability remains intractable yet, which can only be analyzed by model approximation followed with numerical simulations. Future research needs are also identified in the end. 

Title: Failing to Learn: Autonomously Identifying Perception Failures for Self-driving Cars
Abstract:  One of the major open challenges in self-driving cars is the ability to detect cars and pedestrians to safely navigate in the world. Deep learning-based object detector approaches have enabled great advances in using camera imagery to detect and classify objects. But for a safety critical application, such as autonomous driving, the error rates of the current state of the art are still too high to enable safe operation. Moreover, the characterization of object detector performance is primarily limited to testing on prerecorded datasets. Errors that occur on novel data go undetected without additional human labels. In this letter, we propose an automated method to identify mistakes made by object detectors without ground truth labels. We show that inconsistencies in the object detector output between a pair of similar images can be used as hypotheses for false negatives (e.g., missed detections) and using a novel set of features for each hypothesis, an off-the-shelf binary classifier can be used to find valid errors. In particular, we study two distinct cues - temporal and stereo inconsistencies - using data that are readily available on most autonomous vehicles. Our method can be used with any camera-based object detector and we illustrate the technique on several sets of real world data. We show that a state-of-the-art detector, tracker, and our classifier trained only on synthetic data can identify valid errors on KITTI tracking dataset with an average precision of 0.94. We also release a new tracking dataset with 104 sequences totaling 80,655 labeled pairs of stereo images along with ground truth disparity from a game engine to facilitate further research. The dataset and code are available at https://fcav.engin.umich.edu/research/failing-to-learn 

Title: Prediction of Bottleneck Points for Manipulation Planning in Cluttered Environment using a 3D Convolutional Neural Network
Abstract:  Latest research in industrial robotics is aimed at making human robot collaboration possible seamlessly. For this purpose, industrial robots are expected to work on the fly in unstructured and cluttered environments and hence the subject of perception driven motion planning plays a vital role. Sampling based motion planners are proven to be the most effective for such high dimensional planning problems with real time constraints. Unluckily random stochastic samplers suffer from the phenomenon of 'narrow passages' or bottleneck regions which need targeted sampling to improve their convergence rate. Also identifying these bottleneck regions in a diverse set of planning problems is a challenge. In this paper an attempt has been made to address these two problems by designing an intelligent 'bottleneck guided' heuristic for a Rapidly Exploring Random Tree Star (RRT*) planner which is based on relevant context extracted from the planning scenario using a 3D Convolutional Neural Network and it is also proven that the proposed technique generalises to unseen problem instances. This paper benchmarks the technique (bottleneck guided RRT*) against a 10% Goal biased RRT star planner, shows significant improvement in planning time and memory requirement and uses ABB 1410 industrial manipulator as a platform for implantation and validation of the results. 

Title: Geometric Back-projection Network for Point Cloud Classification
Abstract:  As the basic task of point cloud learning, classification is fundamental but always challenging. To address some unsolved problems of existing methods, we propose a CNN based network leveraging an idea of error-correcting feedback structure to comprehensively capture the local features of 3D point clouds. Besides, we also enrich the explicit and implicit geometric information of point clouds in low-level 3D space and high-level feature space, respectively. By applying an attention module based on channel affinity, that focuses on distinct channels, the learned feature map of our network can effectively avoid redundancy. The performance on synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate the superiority and applicability of our network. Comparing with other state-of-the-art methods, our approach balances accuracy and efficiency. 

Title: Dynamic Input for Deep Reinforcement Learning in Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  In many real-world decision making problems, reaching an optimal decision requires taking into account a variable number of objects around the agent. Autonomous driving is a domain in which this is especially relevant, since the number of cars surrounding the agent varies considerably over time and affects the optimal action to be taken. Classical methods that process object lists can deal with this requirement. However, to take advantage of recent high-performing methods based on deep reinforcement learning in modular pipelines, special architectures are necessary. For these, a number of options exist, but a thorough comparison of the different possibilities is missing. In this paper, we elaborate limitations of fully-connected neural networks and other established approaches like convolutional and recurrent neural networks in the context of reinforcement learning problems that have to deal with variable sized inputs. We employ the structure of Deep Sets in off-policy reinforcement learning for high-level decision making, highlight their capabilities to alleviate these limitations, and show that Deep Sets not only yield the best overall performance but also offer better generalization to unseen situations than the other approaches. 

Title: Data-efficient Learning of Morphology and Controller for a Microrobot
Abstract:  Robot design is often a slow and difficult process requiring the iterative construction and testing of prototypes, with the goal of sequentially optimizing the design. For most robots, this process is further complicated by the need, when validating the capabilities of the hardware to solve the desired task, to already have an appropriate controller, which is in turn designed and tuned for the specific hardware. In this paper, we propose a novel approach, HPC-BBO, to efficiently and automatically design hardware configurations, and evaluate them by also automatically tuning the corresponding controller. HPC-BBO is based on a hierarchical Bayesian optimization process which iteratively optimizes morphology configurations (based on the performance of the previous designs during the controller learning process) and subsequently learns the corresponding controllers (exploiting the knowledge collected from optimizing for previous morphologies). Moreover, HPC-BBO can select a "batch" of multiple morphology designs at once, thus parallelizing hardware validation and reducing the number of time-consuming production cycles. We validate HPC-BBO on the design of the morphology and controller for a simulated 6-legged microrobot. Experimental results show that HPC-BBO outperforms multiple competitive baselines, and yields a $360\%$ reduction in production cycles over standard Bayesian optimization, thus reducing the hypothetical manufacturing time of our microrobot from 21 to 4 months. 

Title: POSEAMM: A Unified Framework for Solving Pose Problems using an Alternating Minimization Method
Abstract:  Pose estimation is one of the most important problems in computer vision. It can be divided in two different categories -- absolute and relative -- and may involve two different types of camera models: central and non-central. State-of-the-art methods have been designed to solve separately these problems. This paper presents a unified framework that is able to solve any pose problem by alternating optimization techniques between two set of parameters, rotation and translation. In order to make this possible, it is necessary to define an objective function that captures the problem at hand. Since the objective function will depend on the rotation and translation it is not possible to solve it as a simple minimization problem. Hence the use of Alternating Minimization methods, in which the function will be alternatively minimized with respect to the rotation and the translation. We show how to use our framework in three distinct pose problems. Our methods are then benchmarked with both synthetic and real data, showing their better balance between computational time and accuracy. 

Title: Learning of Multi-Context Models for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Abstract:  Multi-context model learning is crucial for marine robotics where several factors can cause disturbances to the system's dynamics. This work addresses the problem of identifying multiple contexts of an AUV model. We build a simulation model of the robot from experimental data, and use it to fill in the missing data and generate different model contexts. We implement an architecture based on long-short-term-memory (LSTM) networks to learn the different contexts directly from the data. We show that the LSTM network can achieve high classification accuracy compared to baseline methods, showing robustness against noise and scaling efficiently on large datasets. 

Title: Material Recognition CNNs and Hierarchical Planning for Biped Robot Locomotion on Slippery Terrain
Abstract:  In this paper we tackle the problem of visually predicting surface friction for environments with diverse surfaces, and integrating this knowledge into biped robot locomotion planning. The problem is essential for autonomous robot locomotion since diverse surfaces with varying friction abound in the real world, from wood to ceramic tiles, grass or ice, which may cause difficulties or huge energy costs for robot locomotion if not considered. We propose to estimate friction and its uncertainty from visual estimation of material classes using convolutional neural networks, together with probability distribution functions of friction associated with each material. We then robustly integrate the friction predictions into a hierarchical (footstep and full-body) planning method using chance constraints, and optimize the same trajectory costs at both levels of the planning method for consistency. Our solution achieves fully autonomous perception and locomotion on slippery terrain, which considers not only friction and its uncertainty, but also collision, stability and trajectory cost. We show promising friction prediction results in real pictures of outdoor scenarios, and planning experiments on a real robot facing surfaces with different friction. 

Title: Grounding Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning Models for Knowledge Transfer
Abstract:  Methods of deep machine learning enable to to reuse low-level representations efficiently for generating more abstract high-level representations. Originally, deep learning has been applied passively (e.g., for classification purposes). Recently, it has been extended to estimate the value of actions for autonomous agents within the framework of reinforcement learning (RL). Explicit models of the environment can be learned to augment such a value function. Although "flat" connectionist methods have already been used for model-based RL, up to now, only model-free variants of RL have been equipped with methods from deep learning. We propose a variant of deep model-based RL that enables an agent to learn arbitrarily abstract hierarchical representations of its environment. In this paper, we present research on how such hierarchical representations can be grounded in sensorimotor interaction between an agent and its environment. 

Title: Teacher algorithms for curriculum learning of Deep RL in continuously parameterized environments
Abstract:  We consider the problem of how a teacher algorithm can enable an unknown Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) student to become good at a skill over a wide range of diverse environments. To do so, we study how a teacher algorithm can learn to generate a learning curriculum, whereby it sequentially samples parameters controlling a stochastic procedural generation of environments. Because it does not initially know the capacities of its student, a key challenge for the teacher is to discover which environments are easy, difficult or unlearnable, and in what order to propose them to maximize the efficiency of learning over the learnable ones. To achieve this, this problem is transformed into a surrogate continuous bandit problem where the teacher samples environments in order to maximize absolute learning progress of its student. We present a new algorithm modeling absolute learning progress with Gaussian mixture models (ALP-GMM). We also adapt existing algorithms and provide a complete study in the context of DRL. Using parameterized variants of the BipedalWalker environment, we study their efficiency to personalize a learning curriculum for different learners (embodiments), their robustness to the ratio of learnable/unlearnable environments, and their scalability to non-linear and high-dimensional parameter spaces. Videos and code are available at https://github.com/flowersteam/teachDeepRL. 

Title: Loam_livox: A fast, robust, high-precision LiDAR odometry and mapping package for LiDARs of small FoV
Abstract:  LiDAR odometry and mapping (LOAM) has been playing an important role in autonomous vehicles, due to its ability to simultaneously localize the robot's pose and build high-precision, high-resolution maps of the surrounding environment. This enables autonomous navigation and safe path planning of autonomous vehicles. In this paper, we present a robust, real-time LOAM algorithm for LiDARs with small FoV and irregular samplings. By taking effort on both front-end and back-end, we address several fundamental challenges arising from such LiDARs, and achieve better performance in both precision and efficiency compared to existing baselines. To share our findings and to make contributions to the community, we open source our codes on Github 

Title: GRIP: Generative Robust Inference and Perception for Semantic Robot Manipulation in Adversarial Environments
Abstract:  Recent advancements have led to a proliferation of machine learning systems used to assist humans in a wide range of tasks. However, we are still far from accurate, reliable, and resource-efficient operations of these systems. For robot perception, convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for object detection and pose estimation are recently coming into widespread use. However, neural networks are known to suffer overfitting during training process and are less robust within unseen conditions, which are especially vulnerable to adversarial scenarios. In this work, we propose Generative Robust Inference and Perception (GRIP) as a two-stage object detection and pose estimation system that aims to combine relative strengths of discriminative CNNs and generative inference methods to achieve robust estimation. Our results show that a second stage of sample-based generative inference is able to recover from false object detection by CNNs, and produce robust estimations in adversarial conditions. We demonstrate the efficacy of GRIP robustness through comparison with state-of-the-art learning-based pose estimators and pick-and-place manipulation in dark and cluttered environments. 

Title: A Line-Point Unified Solution to Relative Camera Pose Estimation
Abstract:  In this work we present a unified method of relative camera pose estimation from points and lines correspondences. Given a set of 2D points and lines correspondences in three views, of which two are known, a method has been developed for estimating the camera pose of the third view. Novelty of this algorithm is to combine both points and lines correspondences in the camera pose estimation which enables us to compute relative camera pose with a small number of feature correspondences. Our central idea is to exploit the tri-linear relationship between three views and generate a set of linear equations from the points and lines correspondences in the three views. The desired solution to the system of equations are expressed as a linear combination of the singular vectors and the coefficients are computed by solving a small set of quadratic equations generated by imposing orthonormality constraints for general camera motion. The advantages of the proposed method are demonstrated by experimenting on publicly available data set. Results show the robustness and efficiency of the method in relative camera pose estimation for both small and large camera motion with a small set of points and line features. 

Title: Action Anticipation for Collaborative Environments: The Impact of Contextual Information and Uncertainty-Based Prediction
Abstract:  To interact with humans in collaborative environments, machines need to be able to predict (i.e., anticipate) future events, and execute actions in a timely manner. However, the observation of the human limb movements may not be sufficient to anticipate their actions unambiguously. In this work, we consider two additional sources of information (i.e., context) over time, gaze, movement and object information, and study how these additional contextual cues improve the action anticipation performance. We address action anticipation as a classification task, where the model takes the available information as the input and predicts the most likely action. We propose to use the uncertainty about each prediction as an online decision-making criterion for action anticipation. Uncertainty is modeled as a stochastic process applied to a time-based neural network architecture, which improves the conventional class-likelihood (i.e., deterministic) criterion. The main contributions of this paper are four-fold: (i) We propose a novel and effective decision-making criterion that can be used to anticipate actions even in situations of high ambiguity; (ii) we propose a deep architecture that outperforms previous results in the action anticipation task when using the Acticipate collaborative dataset; (iii) we show that contextual information is important to disambiguate the interpretation of similar actions; and (iv) we also provide a formal description of three existing performance metrics that can be easily used to evaluate action anticipation models.Our results on the Acticipate dataset showed the importance of contextual information and the uncertainty criterion for action anticipation. We achieve an average accuracy of 98.75% in the anticipation task using only an average of 25% of observations. 

Title: A Transfer Learning Approach to Cross-Modal Object Recognition: From Visual Observation to Robotic Haptic Exploration
Abstract:  In this work, we introduce the problem of cross-modal visuo-tactile object recognition with robotic active exploration. With this term, we mean that the robot observes a set of objects with visual perception and, later on, it is able to recognize such objects only with tactile exploration, without having touched any object before. Using a machine learning terminology, in our application we have a visual training set and a tactile test set, or vice versa. To tackle this problem, we propose an approach constituted by four steps: finding a visuo-tactile common representation, defining a suitable set of features, transferring the features across the domains, and classifying the objects. We show the results of our approach using a set of 15 objects, collecting 40 visual examples and five tactile examples for each object. The proposed approach achieves an accuracy of 94.7%, which is comparable with the accuracy of the monomodal case, i.e., when using visual data both as training set and test set. Moreover, it performs well compared to the human ability, which we have roughly estimated carrying out an experiment with ten participants. 

Title: MVDepthNet: Real-time Multiview Depth Estimation Neural Network
Abstract:  Although deep neural networks have been widely applied to computer vision problems, extending them into multiview depth estimation is non-trivial. In this paper, we present MVDepthNet, a convolutional network to solve the depth estimation problem given several image-pose pairs from a localized monocular camera in neighbor viewpoints. Multiview observations are encoded in a cost volume and then combined with the reference image to estimate the depth map using an encoder-decoder network. By encoding the information from multiview observations into the cost volume, our method achieves real-time performance and the flexibility of traditional methods that can be applied regardless of the camera intrinsic parameters and the number of images. Geometric data augmentation is used to train MVDepthNet. We further apply MVDepthNet in a monocular dense mapping system that continuously estimates depth maps using a single localized moving camera. Experiments show that our method can generate depth maps efficiently and precisely. 

Title: Peduncle Detection of Sweet Pepper for Autonomous Crop Harvesting - Combined Colour and 3D Information
Abstract:  This paper presents a 3D visual detection method for the challenging task of detecting peduncles of sweet peppers (Capsicum annuum) in the field. Cutting the peduncle cleanly is one of the most difficult stages of the harvesting process, where the peduncle is the part of the crop that attaches it to the main stem of the plant. Accurate peduncle detection in 3D space is therefore a vital step in reliable autonomous harvesting of sweet peppers, as this can lead to precise cutting while avoiding damage to the surrounding plant. This paper makes use of both colour and geometry information acquired from an RGB-D sensor and utilises a supervised-learning approach for the peduncle detection task. The performance of the proposed method is demonstrated and evaluated using qualitative and quantitative results (the Area-Under-the-Curve (AUC) of the detection precision-recall curve). We are able to achieve an AUC of 0.71 for peduncle detection on field-grown sweet peppers. We release a set of manually annotated 3D sweet pepper and peduncle images to assist the research community in performing further research on this topic. 

Title: A Hybrid Approach for Trajectory Control Design
Abstract:  This work presents a methodology to design trajectory tracking feedback control laws, which embed non-parametric statistical models, such as Gaussian Processes (GPs). The aim is to minimize unmodeled dynamics such as undesired slippages. The proposed approach has the benefit of avoiding complex terramechanics analysis to directly estimate from data the robot dynamics on a wide class of trajectories. Experiments in both real and simulated environments prove that the proposed methodology is promising. 

Title: Simitate: A Hybrid Imitation Learning Benchmark
Abstract:  We present Simitate --- a hybrid benchmarking suite targeting the evaluation of approaches for imitation learning. A dataset containing 1938 sequences where humans perform daily activities in a realistic environment is presented. The dataset is strongly coupled with an integration into a simulator. RGB and depth streams with a resolution of 960$\mathbb{\times}$540 at 30Hz and accurate ground truth poses for the demonstrator's hand, as well as the object in 6 DOF at 120Hz are provided. Along with our dataset we provide the 3D model of the used environment, labeled object images and pre-trained models. A benchmarking suite that aims at fostering comparability and reproducibility supports the development of imitation learning approaches. Further, we propose and integrate evaluation metrics on assessing the quality of effect and trajectory of the imitation performed in simulation. Simitate is available on our project website: \url{https://agas.uni-koblenz.de/data/simitate/}. 

Title: Online Self-Supervised Learning for Object Picking: Detecting Optimum Grasping Position using a Metric Learning Approach
Abstract:  Self-supervised learning methods are attractive candidates for automatic object picking. However, the trial samples lack the complete ground truth because the observable parts of the agent are limited. That is, the information contained in the trial samples is often insufficient to learn the specific grasping position of each object. Consequently, the training falls into a local solution, and the grasp positions learned by the robot are independent of the state of the object. In this study, the optimal grasping position of an individual object is determined from the grasping score, defined as the distance in the feature space obtained using metric learning. The closeness of the solution to the pre-designed optimal grasping position was evaluated in trials. The proposed method incorporates two types of feedback control: one feedback enlarges the grasping score when the grasping position approaches the optimum; the other reduces the negative feedback of the potential grasping positions among the grasping candidates. The proposed online self-supervised learning method employs two deep neural networks. : SSD that detects the grasping position of an object, and Siamese networks (SNs) that evaluate the trial sample using the similarity of two input data in the feature space. Our method embeds the relation of each grasping position as feature vectors by training the trial samples and a few pre-samples indicating the optimum grasping position. By incorporating the grasping score based on the feature space of SNs into the SSD training process, the method preferentially trains the optimum grasping position. In the experiment, the proposed method achieved a higher success rate than the baseline method using simple teaching signals. And the grasping scores in the feature space of the SNs accurately represented the grasping positions of the objects. 

Title: Enhancing Object Detection in Adverse Conditions using Thermal Imaging
Abstract:  Autonomous driving relies on deriving understanding of objects and scenes through images. These images are often captured by sensors in the visible spectrum. For improved detection capabilities we propose the use of thermal sensors to augment the vision capabilities of an autonomous vehicle. In this paper, we present our investigations on the fusion of visible and thermal spectrum images using a publicly available dataset, and use it to analyze the performance of object recognition on other known driving datasets. We present an comparison of object detection in night time imagery and qualitatively demonstrate that thermal images significantly improve detection accuracy. 

Title: Iterative Machine Learning for Precision Trajectory Tracking with Series Elastic Actuators
Abstract:  When robots operate in unknown environments small errors in postions can lead to large variations in the contact forces, especially with typical high-impedance designs. This can potentially damage the surroundings and/or the robot. Series elastic actuators (SEAs) are a popular way to reduce the output impedance of a robotic arm to improve control authority over the force exerted on the environment. However this increased control over forces with lower impedance comes at the cost of lower positioning precision and bandwidth. This article examines the use of an iteratively-learned feedforward command to improve position tracking when using SEAs. Over each iteration, the output responses of the system to the quantized inputs are used to estimate a linearized local system models. These estimated models are obtained using a complex-valued Gaussian Process Regression (cGPR) technique and then, used to generate a new feedforward input command based on the previous iteration's error. This article illustrates this iterative machine learning (IML) technique for a two degree of freedom (2-DOF) robotic arm, and demonstrates successful convergence of the IML approach to reduce the tracking error. 

Title: Rewriting History with Inverse RL: Hindsight Inference for Policy Improvement
Abstract:  Multi-task reinforcement learning (RL) aims to simultaneously learn policies for solving many tasks. Several prior works have found that relabeling past experience with different reward functions can improve sample efficiency. Relabeling methods typically ask: if, in hindsight, we assume that our experience was optimal for some task, for what task was it optimal? In this paper, we show that hindsight relabeling is inverse RL, an observation that suggests that we can use inverse RL in tandem for RL algorithms to efficiently solve many tasks. We use this idea to generalize goal-relabeling techniques from prior work to arbitrary classes of tasks. Our experiments confirm that relabeling data using inverse RL accelerates learning in general multi-task settings, including goal-reaching, domains with discrete sets of rewards, and those with linear reward functions. 

Title: Learning to Plan in High Dimensions via Neural Exploration-Exploitation Trees
Abstract:  We propose a meta path planning algorithm named \emph{Neural Exploration-Exploitation Trees~(NEXT)} for learning from prior experience for solving new path planning problems in high dimensional continuous state and action spaces. Compared to more classical sampling-based methods like RRT, our approach achieves much better sample efficiency in high-dimensions and can benefit from prior experience of planning in similar environments. More specifically, NEXT exploits a novel neural architecture which can learn promising search directions from problem structures. The learned prior is then integrated into a UCB-type algorithm to achieve an online balance between \emph{exploration} and \emph{exploitation} when solving a new problem. We conduct thorough experiments to show that NEXT accomplishes new planning problems with more compact search trees and significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods on several benchmarks. 

Title: Composable Action-Conditioned Predictors: Flexible Off-Policy Learning for Robot Navigation
Abstract:  A general-purpose intelligent robot must be able to learn autonomously and be able to accomplish multiple tasks in order to be deployed in the real world. However, standard reinforcement learning approaches learn separate task-specific policies and assume the reward function for each task is known a priori. We propose a framework that learns event cues from off-policy data, and can flexibly combine these event cues at test time to accomplish different tasks. These event cue labels are not assumed to be known a priori, but are instead labeled using learned models, such as computer vision detectors, and then `backed up' in time using an action-conditioned predictive model. We show that a simulated robotic car and a real-world RC car can gather data and train fully autonomously without any human-provided labels beyond those needed to train the detectors, and then at test-time be able to accomplish a variety of different tasks. Videos of the experiments and code can be found at https://github.com/gkahn13/CAPs 

Title: A Deep Learning Approach for Robust Corridor Following
Abstract:  For an autonomous corridor following task where the environment is continuously changing, several forms of environmental noise prevent an automated feature extraction procedure from performing reliably. Moreover, in cases where pre-defined features are absent from the captured data, a well defined control signal for performing the servoing task fails to get produced. In order to overcome these drawbacks, we present in this work, using a convolutional neural network (CNN) to directly estimate the required control signal from an image, encompassing feature extraction and control law computation into one single end-to-end framework. In particular, we study the task of autonomous corridor following using a CNN and present clear advantages in cases where a traditional method used for performing the same task fails to give a reliable outcome. We evaluate the performance of our method on this task on a Wheelchair Platform developed at our institute for this purpose. 

Title: Jointly Learning to Construct and Control Agents using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  The physical design of a robot and the policy that controls its motion are inherently coupled, and should be determined according to the task and environment. In an increasing number of applications, data-driven and learning-based approaches, such as deep reinforcement learning, have proven effective at designing control policies. For most tasks, the only way to evaluate a physical design with respect to such control policies is empirical--i.e., by picking a design and training a control policy for it. Since training these policies is time-consuming, it is computationally infeasible to train separate policies for all possible designs as a means to identify the best one. In this work, we address this limitation by introducing a method that performs simultaneous joint optimization of the physical design and control network. Our approach maintains a distribution over designs and uses reinforcement learning to optimize a control policy to maximize expected reward over the design distribution. We give the controller access to design parameters to allow it to tailor its policy to each design in the distribution. Throughout training, we shift the distribution towards higher-performing designs, eventually converging to a design and control policy that are jointly optimal. We evaluate our approach in the context of legged locomotion, and demonstrate that it discovers novel designs and walking gaits, outperforming baselines in both performance and efficiency. 

Title: Metric Pose Estimation for Human-Machine Interaction Using Monocular Vision
Abstract:  The rapid growth of collaborative robotics in production requires new automation technologies that take human and machine equally into account. In this work, we describe a monocular camera based system to detect human-machine interactions from a bird's-eye perspective. Our system predicts poses of humans and robots from a single wide-angle color image. Even though our approach works on 2D color input, we lift the majority of detections to a metric 3D space. Our system merges pose information with predefined virtual sensors to coordinate human-machine interactions. We demonstrate the advantages of our system in three use cases. 

Title: Mobility Map Computations for Autonomous Navigation using an RGBD Sensor
Abstract:  In recent years, the numbers of life-size humanoids as well as their mobile capabilities have steadily grown. Stable walking motion and control for humanoid robots are active fields of research. In this scenario an open question is how to model and analyse the scene so that a motion planning algorithm can generate an appropriate walking pattern. This paper presents the current work towards scene modelling and understanding, using an RGBD sensor. The main objective is to provide the humanoid robot iCub with capabilities to navigate safely and interact with various parts of the environment. In this sense we address the problem of traversability analysis of the scene, focusing on classification of point clouds as a function of mobility, and hence walking safety. 

Title: DeepRelativeFusion: Dense Monocular SLAM using Single-Image Relative Depth Prediction
Abstract:  Traditional monocular visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithms have been extensively studied and proven to reliably recover a sparse structure and camera motion. Nevertheless, the sparse structure is still insufficient for scene interaction, e.g., visual navigation and augmented reality applications. To densify the scene reconstruction, the use of single-image absolute depth prediction from convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for filling in the missing structure has been proposed. However, the prediction accuracy tends to not generalize well on scenes that are different from the training datasets. In this paper, we propose a dense monocular SLAM system, named DeepRelativeFusion, that is capable to recover a globally consistent 3D structure. To this end, we use a visual SLAM algorithm to reliably recover the camera poses and semi-dense depth maps of the keyframes, and then combine the keyframe pose-graph with the densified keyframe depth maps to reconstruct the scene. To perform the densification, we introduce two incremental improvements upon the energy minimization framework proposed by DeepFusion: (1) an additional image gradient term in the cost function, and (2) the use of single-image relative depth prediction. Despite the absence of absolute scale and depth range, the relative depth maps can be corrected using their respective semi-dense depth maps from the SLAM algorithm. We show that the corrected relative depth maps are sufficiently accurate to be used as priors for the densification. To demonstrate the generalizability of relative depth prediction, we illustrate qualitatively the dense reconstruction on two outdoor sequences. Our system also outperforms the state-of-the-art dense SLAM systems quantitatively in dense reconstruction accuracy by a large margin. 

Title: The Emergence of Adversarial Communication in Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Many real-world problems require the coordination of multiple autonomous agents. Recent work has shown the promise of Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) to learn explicit communication strategies that enable complex multi-agent coordination. These works use models of cooperative multi-agent systems whereby agents strive to achieve a shared global goal. When considering agents with self-interested local objectives, the standard design choice is to model these as separate learning systems (albeit sharing the same environment). Such a design choice, however, precludes the existence of a single, differentiable communication channel, and consequently prohibits the learning of inter-agent communication strategies. In this work, we address this gap by presenting a learning model that accommodates individual non-shared rewards and a differentiable communication channel that is common among all agents. We focus on the case where agents have self-interested objectives, and develop a learning algorithm that elicits the emergence of adversarial communications. We perform experiments on multi-agent coverage and path planning problems, and employ a post-hoc interpretability technique to visualize the messages that agents communicate to each other. We show how a single self-interested agent is capable of learning highly manipulative communication strategies that allows it to significantly outperform a cooperative team of agents. 

Title: FisheyeMultiNet: Real-time Multi-task Learning Architecture for Surround-view Automated Parking System
Abstract:  Automated Parking is a low speed manoeuvring scenario which is quite unstructured and complex, requiring full 360{\deg} near-field sensing around the vehicle. In this paper, we discuss the design and implementation of an automated parking system from the perspective of camera based deep learning algorithms. We provide a holistic overview of an industrial system covering the embedded system, use cases and the deep learning architecture. We demonstrate a real-time multi-task deep learning network called FisheyeMultiNet, which detects all the necessary objects for parking on a low-power embedded system. FisheyeMultiNet runs at 15 fps for 4 cameras and it has three tasks namely object detection, semantic segmentation and soiling detection. To encourage further research, we release a partial dataset of 5,000 images containing semantic segmentation and bounding box detection ground truth via WoodScape project \cite{yogamani2019woodscape}. 

Title: Fully Convolutional Search Heuristic Learning for Rapid Path Planners
Abstract:  Path-planning algorithms are an important part of a wide variety of robotic applications, such as mobile robot navigation and robot arm manipulation. However, in large search spaces in which local traps may exist, it remains challenging to reliably find a path while satisfying real-time constraints. Efforts to speed up the path search have led to the development of many practical path-planning algorithms. These algorithms often define a search heuristic to guide the search towards the goal. The heuristics should be carefully designed for each specific problem to ensure reliability in the various situations encountered in the problem. However, it is often difficult for humans to craft such robust heuristics, and the search performance often degrades under conditions that violate the heuristic assumption. Rather than manually designing the heuristics, in this work, we propose a learning approach to acquire these search heuristics. Our method represents the environment containing the obstacles as an image, and this image is fed into fully convolutional neural networks to produce a search heuristic image where every pixel represents a heuristic value (cost-to-go value to a goal) in the form of a vertex of a search graph. Training the heuristic is performed using previously collected planning results. Our preliminary experiments (2D grid world navigation experiments) demonstrate significant reduction in the search costs relative to a hand-designed heuristic. 

Title: Action-Based Representation Learning for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Human drivers produce a vast amount of data which could, in principle, be used to improve autonomous driving systems. Unfortunately, seemingly straightforward approaches for creating end-to-end driving models that map sensor data directly into driving actions are problematic in terms of interpretability, and typically have significant difficulty dealing with spurious correlations. Alternatively, we propose to use this kind of action-based driving data for learning representations. Our experiments show that an affordance-based driving model pre-trained with this approach can leverage a relatively small amount of weakly annotated imagery and outperform pure end-to-end driving models, while being more interpretable. Further, we demonstrate how this strategy outperforms previous methods based on learning inverse dynamics models as well as other methods based on heavy human supervision (ImageNet). 

Title: Efficient Supervision for Robot Learning via Imitation, Simulation, and Adaptation
Abstract:  Recent successes in machine learning have led to a shift in the design of autonomous systems, improving performance on existing tasks and rendering new applications possible. Data-focused approaches gain relevance across diverse, intricate applications when developing data collection and curation pipelines becomes more effective than manual behaviour design. The following work aims at increasing the efficiency of this pipeline in two principal ways: by utilising more powerful sources of informative data and by extracting additional information from existing data. In particular, we target three orthogonal fronts: imitation learning, domain adaptation, and transfer from simulation. 

Title: Label Efficient Visual Abstractions for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  It is well known that semantic segmentation can be used as an effective intermediate representation for learning driving policies. However, the task of street scene semantic segmentation requires expensive annotations. Furthermore, segmentation algorithms are often trained irrespective of the actual driving task, using auxiliary image-space loss functions which are not guaranteed to maximize driving metrics such as safety or distance traveled per intervention. In this work, we seek to quantify the impact of reducing segmentation annotation costs on learned behavior cloning agents. We analyze several segmentation-based intermediate representations. We use these visual abstractions to systematically study the trade-off between annotation efficiency and driving performance, i.e., the types of classes labeled, the number of image samples used to learn the visual abstraction model, and their granularity (e.g., object masks vs. 2D bounding boxes). Our analysis uncovers several practical insights into how segmentation-based visual abstractions can be exploited in a more label efficient manner. Surprisingly, we find that state-of-the-art driving performance can be achieved with orders of magnitude reduction in annotation cost. Beyond label efficiency, we find several additional training benefits when leveraging visual abstractions, such as a significant reduction in the variance of the learned policy when compared to state-of-the-art end-to-end driving models. 

Title: Model-Ensemble Trust-Region Policy Optimization
Abstract:  Model-free reinforcement learning (RL) methods are succeeding in a growing number of tasks, aided by recent advances in deep learning. However, they tend to suffer from high sample complexity, which hinders their use in real-world domains. Alternatively, model-based reinforcement learning promises to reduce sample complexity, but tends to require careful tuning and to date have succeeded mainly in restrictive domains where simple models are sufficient for learning. In this paper, we analyze the behavior of vanilla model-based reinforcement learning methods when deep neural networks are used to learn both the model and the policy, and show that the learned policy tends to exploit regions where insufficient data is available for the model to be learned, causing instability in training. To overcome this issue, we propose to use an ensemble of models to maintain the model uncertainty and regularize the learning process. We further show that the use of likelihood ratio derivatives yields much more stable learning than backpropagation through time. Altogether, our approach Model-Ensemble Trust-Region Policy Optimization (ME-TRPO) significantly reduces the sample complexity compared to model-free deep RL methods on challenging continuous control benchmark tasks. 

Title: VTGNet: A Vision-based Trajectory Generation Network for Autonomous Vehicles in Urban Environments
Abstract:  Traditional methods for autonomous driving are implemented with many building blocks from perception, planning and control, making them difficult to generalize to varied scenarios due to complex assumptions and interdependencies. Recently, the end-to-end driving method has emerged, which performs well and generalizes to new environments by directly learning from export-provided data. However, many prior methods on this topic neglect to check the confidence of the driving actions and the ability to recover from driving mistakes. In this paper, we develop an uncertainty-aware end-to-end trajectory generation method based on imitation learning. It can extract spatiotemporal features from the front-view camera images for scene understanding, then generate collision-free trajectories several seconds into the future. The experimental results suggest that under various weather and lighting conditions, our network can reliably generate trajectories in different urban environments, such as turning at intersections and slowing down for collision avoidance. Furthermore, closed-loop driving tests suggest that the proposed method achieves better cross-scene/platform driving results than the state-of-the-art (SOTA) end-to-end control method, where our model can recover from off-center and off-orientation errors and capture 80% of dangerous cases with high uncertainty estimations. 

Title: Domain-Adversarial and -Conditional State Space Model for Imitation Learning
Abstract:  State representation learning (SRL) in partially observable Markov decision processes has been studied to learn abstract features of data useful for robot control tasks. For SRL, acquiring domain-agnostic states is essential for achieving efficient imitation learning (IL). Without these states, IL is hampered by domain-dependent information useless for control. However, existing methods fail to remove such disturbances from the states when the data from experts and agents show large domain shifts. To overcome this issue, we propose a domain-adversarial and -conditional state space model (DAC-SSM) that enables control systems to obtain domain-agnostic and task- and dynamics-aware states. DAC-SSM jointly optimizes the state inference, observation reconstruction, forward dynamics, and reward models. To remove domain-dependent information from the states, the model is trained with domain discriminators in an adversarial manner, and the reconstruction is conditioned on domain labels. We experimentally evaluated the model predictive control performance via IL for continuous control of sparse reward tasks in simulators and compared it with the performance of the existing SRL method. The agents from DAC-SSM achieved performance comparable to experts and more than twice the baselines. We conclude domain-agnostic states are essential for IL that has large domain shifts and can be obtained using DAC-SSM. 

Title: A Survey of Behavior Learning Applications in Robotics -- State of the Art and Perspectives
Abstract:  Recent success of machine learning in many domains has been overwhelming, which often leads to false expectations regarding the capabilities of behavior learning in robotics. In this survey, we analyze the current state of machine learning for robotic behaviors. We will give a broad overview of behaviors that have been learned and used on real robots. Our focus is on kinematically or sensorially complex robots. That includes humanoid robots or parts of humanoid robots, for example, legged robots or robotic arms. We will classify presented behaviors according to various categories and we will draw conclusions about what can be learned and what should be learned. Furthermore, we will give an outlook on problems that are challenging today but might be solved by machine learning in the future and argue that classical robotics and other approaches from artificial intelligence should be integrated more with machine learning to form complete, autonomous systems. 

Title: Bayesian Optimization Meets Riemannian Manifolds in Robot Learning
Abstract:  Bayesian optimization (BO) recently became popular in robotics to optimize control parameters and parametric policies in direct reinforcement learning due to its data efficiency and gradient-free approach. However, its performance may be seriously compromised when the parameter space is high-dimensional. A way to tackle this problem is to introduce domain knowledge into the BO framework. We propose to exploit the geometry of non-Euclidean parameter spaces, which often arise in robotics (e.g. orientation, stiffness matrix). Our approach, built on Riemannian manifold theory, allows BO to properly measure similarities in the parameter space through geometry-aware kernel functions and to optimize the acquisition function on the manifold as an unconstrained problem. We test our approach in several benchmark artificial landscapes and using a 7-DOF simulated robot to learn orientation and impedance parameters for manipulation skills. 

Title: PVEs: Position-Velocity Encoders for Unsupervised Learning of Structured State Representations
Abstract:  We propose position-velocity encoders (PVEs) which learn---without supervision---to encode images to positions and velocities of task-relevant objects. PVEs encode a single image into a low-dimensional position state and compute the velocity state from finite differences in position. In contrast to autoencoders, position-velocity encoders are not trained by image reconstruction, but by making the position-velocity representation consistent with priors about interacting with the physical world. We applied PVEs to several simulated control tasks from pixels and achieved promising preliminary results. 

Title: Sample Efficient Interactive End-to-End Deep Learning for Self-Driving Cars with Selective Multi-Class Safe Dataset Aggregation
Abstract:  The objective of this paper is to develop a sample efficient end-to-end deep learning method for self-driving cars, where we attempt to increase the value of the information extracted from samples, through careful analysis obtained from each call to expert driver\'s policy. End-to-end imitation learning is a popular method for computing self-driving car policies. The standard approach relies on collecting pairs of inputs (camera images) and outputs (steering angle, etc.) from an expert policy and fitting a deep neural network to this data to learn the driving policy. Although this approach had some successful demonstrations in the past, learning a good policy might require a lot of samples from the expert driver, which might be resource-consuming. In this work, we develop a novel framework based on the Safe Dateset Aggregation (safe DAgger) approach, where the current learned policy is automatically segmented into different trajectory classes, and the algorithm identifies trajectory segments or classes with the weak performance at each step. Once the trajectory segments with weak performance identified, the sampling algorithm focuses on calling the expert policy only on these segments, which improves the convergence rate. The presented simulation results show that the proposed approach can yield significantly better performance compared to the standard Safe DAgger algorithm while using the same amount of samples from the expert. 

Title: Exploring Convolutional Networks for End-to-End Visual Servoing
Abstract:  Present image based visual servoing approaches rely on extracting hand crafted visual features from an image. Choosing the right set of features is important as it directly affects the performance of any approach. Motivated by recent breakthroughs in performance of data driven methods on recognition and localization tasks, we aim to learn visual feature representations suitable for servoing tasks in unstructured and unknown environments. In this paper, we present an end-to-end learning based approach for visual servoing in diverse scenes where the knowledge of camera parameters and scene geometry is not available a priori. This is achieved by training a convolutional neural network over color images with synchronised camera poses. Through experiments performed in simulation and on a quadrotor, we demonstrate the efficacy and robustness of our approach for a wide range of camera poses in both indoor as well as outdoor environments. 

Title: DF-SLAM: A Deep-Learning Enhanced Visual SLAM System based on Deep Local Features
Abstract:  As the foundation of driverless vehicle and intelligent robots, Simultaneous Localization and Mapping(SLAM) has attracted much attention these days. However, non-geometric modules of traditional SLAM algorithms are limited by data association tasks and have become a bottleneck preventing the development of SLAM. To deal with such problems, many researchers seek to Deep Learning for help. But most of these studies are limited to virtual datasets or specific environments, and even sacrifice efficiency for accuracy. Thus, they are not practical enough. We propose DF-SLAM system that uses deep local feature descriptors obtained by the neural network as a substitute for traditional hand-made features. Experimental results demonstrate its improvements in efficiency and stability. DF-SLAM outperforms popular traditional SLAM systems in various scenes, including challenging scenes with intense illumination changes. Its versatility and mobility fit well into the need for exploring new environments. Since we adopt a shallow network to extract local descriptors and remain others the same as original SLAM systems, our DF-SLAM can still run in real-time on GPU. 

Title: Synthesis of Provably Correct Autonomy Protocols for Shared Control
Abstract:  We synthesize shared control protocols subject to probabilistic temporal logic specifications. More specifically, we develop a framework in which a human and an autonomy protocol can issue commands to carry out a certain task. We blend these commands into a joint input to a robot. We model the interaction between the human and the robot as a Markov decision process (MDP) that represents the shared control scenario. Using inverse reinforcement learning, we obtain an abstraction of the human's behavior and decisions. We use randomized strategies to account for randomness in human's decisions, caused by factors such as complexity of the task specifications or imperfect interfaces. We design the autonomy protocol to ensure that the resulting robot behavior satisfies given safety and performance specifications in probabilistic temporal logic. Additionally, the resulting strategies generate behavior as similar to the behavior induced by the human's commands as possible. We solve the underlying problem efficiently using quasiconvex programming. Case studies involving autonomous wheelchair navigation and unmanned aerial vehicle mission planning showcase the applicability of our approach. 

Title: Adaptive Behavior Generation for Autonomous Driving using Deep Reinforcement Learning with Compact Semantic States
Abstract:  Making the right decision in traffic is a challenging task that is highly dependent on individual preferences as well as the surrounding environment. Therefore it is hard to model solely based on expert knowledge. In this work we use Deep Reinforcement Learning to learn maneuver decisions based on a compact semantic state representation. This ensures a consistent model of the environment across scenarios as well as a behavior adaptation function, enabling on-line changes of desired behaviors without re-training. The input for the neural network is a simulated object list similar to that of Radar or Lidar sensors, superimposed by a relational semantic scene description. The state as well as the reward are extended by a behavior adaptation function and a parameterization respectively. With little expert knowledge and a set of mid-level actions, it can be seen that the agent is capable to adhere to traffic rules and learns to drive safely in a variety of situations. 

Title: Deep Learning-based Vehicle Behaviour Prediction For Autonomous Driving Applications: A Review
Abstract:  Behaviour prediction function of an autonomous vehicle predicts the future states of the nearby vehicles based on the current and past observations of the surrounding environment. This helps enhance their awareness of the imminent hazards. However, conventional behaviour prediction solutions are applicable in simple driving scenarios that require short prediction horizons. Most recently, deep learning-based approaches have become popular due to their superior performance in more complex environments compared to the conventional approaches. Motivated by this increased popularity, we provide a comprehensive review of the state-of-the-art of deep learning-based approaches for vehicle behaviour prediction in this paper. We firstly give an overview of the generic problem of vehicle behaviour prediction and discuss its challenges, followed by classification and review of the most recent deep learning-based solutions based on three criteria: input representation, output type, and prediction method. The paper also discusses the performance of several well-known solutions, identifies the research gaps in the literature and outlines potential new research directions. 

Title: Towards vision-based robotic skins: a data-driven, multi-camera tactile sensor
Abstract:  This paper describes the design of a multi-camera optical tactile sensor that provides information about the contact force distribution applied to its soft surface. This information is contained in the motion of spherical particles spread within the surface, which deforms when subject to force. The small embedded cameras capture images of the different particle patterns that are then mapped to the three-dimensional contact force distribution through a machine learning architecture. The design proposed in this paper exhibits a larger contact surface and a thinner structure than most of the existing camera-based tactile sensors, without the use of additional reflecting components such as mirrors. A modular implementation of the learning architecture is discussed that facilitates the scalability to larger surfaces such as robotic skins. 

Title: Intrinsic Calibration of Depth Cameras for Mobile Robots using a Radial Laser Scanner
Abstract:  Depth cameras, typically in RGB-D configurations, are common devices in mobile robotic platforms given their appealing features: high frequency and resolution, low price and power requirements, among others. These sensors may come with significant, non-linear errors in the depth measurements that jeopardize robot tasks, like free-space detection, environment reconstruction or visual robot-human interaction. This paper presents a method to calibrate such systematic errors with the help of a second, more precise range sensor, in our case a radial laser scanner. In contrast to what it may seem at first, this does not mean a serious limitation in practice since these two sensors are often mounted jointly in many mobile robotic platforms, as they complement well each other. Moreover, the laser scanner can be used just for the calibration process and get rid of it after that. The main contributions of the paper are: i) the calibration is formulated from a probabilistic perspective through a Maximum Likelihood Estimation problem, and ii) the proposed method can be easily executed automatically by mobile robotic platforms. To validate the proposed approach we evaluated for both, local distortion of 3D planar reconstructions and global shifts in the measurements, obtaining considerably more accurate results. A C++ open-source implementation of the presented method has been released for the benefit of the community. 

Title: Gimme Signals: Discriminative signal encoding for multimodal activity recognition
Abstract:  We present a simple, yet effective and flexible method for action recognition supporting multiple sensor modalities. Multivariate signal sequences are encoded in an image and are then classified using a recently proposed EfficientNet CNN architecture. Our focus was to find an approach that generalizes well across different sensor modalities without specific adaptions while still achieving good results. We apply our method to 4 action recognition datasets containing skeleton sequences, inertial and motion capturing measurements as well as \wifi fingerprints that range up to 120 action classes. Our method defines the current best CNN-based approach on the NTU RGB+D 120 dataset, lifts the state of the art on the ARIL Wi-Fi dataset by +6.78%, improves the UTD-MHAD inertial baseline by +14.4%, the UTD-MHAD skeleton baseline by 1.13% and achieves 96.11% on the Simitate motion capturing data (80/20 split). We further demonstrate experiments on both, modality fusion on a signal level and signal reduction to prevent the representation from overloading. 

Title: Incremental Reconstruction of Urban Environments by Edge-Points Delaunay Triangulation
Abstract:  Urban reconstruction from a video captured by a surveying vehicle constitutes a core module of automated mapping. When computational power represents a limited resource and, a detailed map is not the primary goal, the reconstruction can be performed incrementally, from a monocular video, carving a 3D Delaunay triangulation of sparse points; this allows online incremental mapping for tasks such as traversability analysis or obstacle avoidance. To exploit the sharp edges of urban landscape, we propose to use a Delaunay triangulation of Edge-Points, which are the 3D points corresponding to image edges. These points constrain the edges of the 3D Delaunay triangulation to real-world edges. Besides the use of the Edge-Points, a second contribution of this paper is the Inverse Cone Heuristic that preemptively avoids the creation of artifacts in the reconstructed manifold surface. We force the reconstruction of a manifold surface since it makes it possible to apply computer graphics or photometric refinement algorithms to the output mesh. We evaluated our approach on four real sequences of the public available KITTI dataset by comparing the incremental reconstruction against Velodyne measurements. 

Title: Real-time 3D Shape Instantiation from Single Fluoroscopy Projection for Fenestrated Stent Graft Deployment
Abstract:  Robot-assisted deployment of fenestrated stent grafts in Fenestrated Endovascular Aortic Repair (FEVAR) requires accurate geometrical alignment. Currently, this process is guided by 2D fluoroscopy, which is uninformative and error prone. In this paper, a real-time framework is proposed to instantiate the 3D shape of a fenestrated stent graft based on only a single low-dose 2D fluoroscopic image. Firstly, the fenestrated stent graft was placed with markers. Secondly, the 3D pose of each stent segment was instantiated by the RPnP (Robust Perspective-n-Point) method. Thirdly, the 3D shape of the whole stent graft was instantiated via graft gap interpolation. Focal-Unet was proposed to segment the markers from 2D fluoroscopic images to achieve semi-automatic marker detection. The proposed framework was validated on five patient-specific 3D printed phantoms of aortic aneurysms and three stent grafts with new marker placements, showing an average distance error of 1-3mm and an average angle error of 4 degree. 

Title: Mid-Level Visual Representations Improve Generalization and Sample Efficiency for Learning Visuomotor Policies
Abstract:  How much does having visual priors about the world (e.g. the fact that the world is 3D) assist in learning to perform downstream motor tasks (e.g. delivering a package)? We study this question by integrating a generic perceptual skill set (e.g. a distance estimator, an edge detector, etc.) within a reinforcement learning framework--see Figure 1. This skill set (hereafter mid-level perception) provides the policy with a more processed state of the world compared to raw images. We find that using a mid-level perception confers significant advantages over training end-to-end from scratch (i.e. not leveraging priors) in navigation-oriented tasks. Agents are able to generalize to situations where the from-scratch approach fails and training becomes significantly more sample efficient. However, we show that realizing these gains requires careful selection of the mid-level perceptual skills. Therefore, we refine our findings into an efficient max-coverage feature set that can be adopted in lieu of raw images. We perform our study in completely separate buildings for training and testing and compare against visually blind baseline policies and state-of-the-art feature learning methods. 

Title: Multi-Sensor Integration for Indoor 3D Reconstruction
Abstract:  Outdoor maps and navigation information delivered by modern services and technologies like Google Maps and Garmin navigators have revolutionized the lifestyle of many people. Motivated by the desire for similar navigation systems for indoor usage from consumers, advertisers, emergency rescuers/responders, etc., many indoor environments such as shopping malls, museums, casinos, airports, transit stations, offices, and schools need to be mapped. Typically, the environment is first reconstructed by capturing many point clouds from various stations and defining their spatial relationships. Currently, there is a lack of an accurate, rigorous, and speedy method for relating point clouds in indoor, urban, satellite-denied environments. This thesis presents a novel and automatic way for fusing calibrated point clouds obtained using a terrestrial laser scanner and the Microsoft Kinect by integrating them with a low-cost inertial measurement unit. The developed system, titled the Scannect, is the first joint static-kinematic indoor 3D mapper. 

Title: Event-based visual place recognition with ensembles of spatio-temporal windows
Abstract:  Event cameras are bio-inspired sensors capable of providing a continuous stream of events with low latency and high dynamic range. As a single event only carries limited information about the brightness change at a particular pixel, events are commonly accumulated into spatio-temporal windows for further processing. However, the optimal window length varies depending on the scene, camera motion, the task being performed, and other factors. In this research, we develop a novel ensemble-based scheme for combining spatio-temporal windows of varying lengths that are processed in parallel. For applications where the increased computational requirements of this approach are not practical, we also introduce a new "approximate" ensemble scheme that achieves significant computational efficiencies without unduly compromising the original performance gains provided by the ensemble approach. We demonstrate our ensemble scheme on the visual place recognition (VPR) task, introducing a new Brisbane-Event-VPR dataset with annotated recordings captured using a DAVIS346 color event camera. We show that our proposed ensemble scheme significantly outperforms all the single-window baselines and conventional model-based ensembles, irrespective of the image reconstruction and feature extraction methods used in the VPR pipeline, and evaluate which ensemble combination technique performs best. These results demonstrate the significant benefits of ensemble schemes for event camera processing in the VPR domain and may have relevance to other related processes, including feature tracking, visual-inertial odometry, and steering prediction in driving. 

Title: Stereo-based terrain traversability analysis using normal-based segmentation and superpixel surface analysis
Abstract:  In this paper, an stereo-based traversability analysis approach for all terrains in off-road mobile robotics, e.g. Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGVs) is proposed. This approach reformulates the problem of terrain traversability analysis into two main problems: (1) 3D terrain reconstruction and (2) terrain all surfaces detection and analysis. The proposed approach is using stereo camera for perception and 3D reconstruction of the terrain. In order to detect all the existing surfaces in the 3D reconstructed terrain as superpixel surfaces (i.e. segments), an image segmentation technique is applied using geometry-based features (pixel-based surface normals). Having detected all the surfaces, Superpixel Surface Traversability Analysis approach (SSTA) is applied on all of the detected surfaces (superpixel segments) in order to classify them based on their traversability index. The proposed SSTA approach is based on: (1) Superpixel surface normal and plane estimation, (2) Traversability analysis using superpixel surface planes. Having analyzed all the superpixel surfaces based on their traversability, these surfaces are finally classified into five main categories as following: traversable, semi-traversable, non-traversable, unknown and undecided. 

Title: Curriculum Learning with Hindsight Experience Replay for Sequential Object Manipulation Tasks
Abstract:  Learning complex tasks from scratch is challenging and often impossible for humans as well as for artificial agents. A curriculum can be used instead, which decomposes a complex task (target task) into a sequence of source tasks (the curriculum). Each source task is a simplified version of the next source task with increasing complexity. Learning then occurs gradually by training on each source task while using knowledge from the curriculum's prior source tasks. In this study, we present a new algorithm that combines curriculum learning with Hindsight Experience Replay (HER), to learn sequential object manipulation tasks for multiple goals and sparse feedback. The algorithm exploits the recurrent structure inherent in many object manipulation tasks and implements the entire learning process in the original simulation without adjusting it to each source task. We have tested our algorithm on three challenging throwing tasks and show vast improvements compared to vanilla-HER. 

Title: A Survey on Deep Learning Architectures for Image-based Depth Reconstruction
Abstract:  Estimating depth from RGB images is a long-standing ill-posed problem, which has been explored for decades by the computer vision, graphics, and machine learning communities. In this article, we provide a comprehensive survey of the recent developments in this field. We will focus on the works which use deep learning techniques to estimate depth from one or multiple images. Deep learning, coupled with the availability of large training datasets, have revolutionized the way the depth reconstruction problem is being approached by the research community. In this article, we survey more than 100 key contributions that appeared in the past five years, summarize the most commonly used pipelines, and discuss their benefits and limitations. In retrospect of what has been achieved so far, we also conjecture what the future may hold for learning-based depth reconstruction research. 

Title: LiDAR and Camera Calibration using Motion Estimated by Sensor Fusion Odometry
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a method of targetless and automatic Camera-LiDAR calibration. Our approach is an extension of hand-eye calibration framework to 2D-3D calibration. By using the sensor fusion odometry method, the scaled camera motions are calculated with high accuracy. In addition to this, we clarify the suitable motion for this calibration method. The proposed method only requires the three-dimensional point cloud and the camera image and does not need other information such as reflectance of LiDAR and to give initial extrinsic parameter. In the experiments, we demonstrate our method using several sensor configurations in indoor and outdoor scenes to verify the effectiveness. The accuracy of our method achieves more than other comparable state-of-the-art methods. 

Title: Acquiring Target Stacking Skills by Goal-Parameterized Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Understanding physical phenomena is a key component of human intelligence and enables physical interaction with previously unseen environments. In this paper, we study how an artificial agent can autonomously acquire this intuition through interaction with the environment. We created a synthetic block stacking environment with physics simulation in which the agent can learn a policy end-to-end through trial and error. Thereby, we bypass to explicitly model physical knowledge within the policy. We are specifically interested in tasks that require the agent to reach a given goal state that may be different for every new trial. To this end, we propose a deep reinforcement learning framework that learns policies which are parametrized by a goal. We validated the model on a toy example navigating in a grid world with different target positions and in a block stacking task with different target structures of the final tower. In contrast to prior work, our policies show better generalization across different goals. 

Title: Extracting Semantic Indoor Maps from Occupancy Grids
Abstract:  The primary challenge for any autonomous system operating in realistic, rather unconstrained scenarios is to manage the complexity and uncertainty of the real world. While it is unclear how exactly humans and other higher animals master these problems, it seems evident, that abstraction plays an important role. The use of abstract concepts allows to define the system behavior on higher levels. In this paper we focus on the semantic mapping of indoor environments. We propose a method to extract an abstracted floor plan from typical grid maps using Bayesian reasoning. The result of this procedure is a probabilistic generative model of the environment defined over abstract concepts. It is well suited for higher-level reasoning and communication purposes. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach using real-world data. 

Title: Exactly Sparse Gaussian Variational Inference with Application to Derivative-Free Batch Nonlinear State Estimation
Abstract:  We present a Gaussian Variational Inference (GVI) technique that can be applied to large-scale nonlinear batch state estimation problems. The main contribution is to show how to fit both the mean and (inverse) covariance of a Gaussian to the posterior efficiently, by exploiting factorization of the joint likelihood of the state and data, as is common in practical problems. This is different than Maximum A Posteriori (MAP) estimation, which seeks the point estimate for the state that maximizes the posterior (i.e., the mode). The proposed Exactly Sparse Gaussian Variational Inference (ESGVI) technique stores the inverse covariance matrix, which is typically very sparse (e.g., block-tridiagonal for classic state estimation). We show that the only blocks of the (dense) covariance matrix that are required during the calculations correspond to the non-zero blocks of the inverse covariance matrix, and further show how to calculate these blocks efficiently in the general GVI problem. ESGVI operates iteratively, and while we can use analytical derivatives at each iteration, Gaussian cubature can be substituted, thereby producing an efficient derivative-free batch formulation. ESGVI simplifies to precisely the Rauch-Tung-Striebel (RTS) smoother in the batch linear estimation case, but goes beyond the 'extended' RTS smoother in the nonlinear case since it finds the best-fit Gaussian (mean and covariance), not the MAP point estimate. We demonstrate the technique on controlled simulation problems and a batch nonlinear Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) problem with an experimental dataset. 

Title: Learning predictive representations in autonomous driving to improve deep reinforcement learning
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning using a novel predictive representation is applied to autonomous driving to accomplish the task of driving between lane markings where substantial benefits in performance and generalization are observed on unseen test roads in both simulation and on a real Jackal robot. The novel predictive representation is learned by general value functions (GVFs) to provide out-of-policy, or counter-factual, predictions of future lane centeredness and road angle that form a compact representation of the state of the agent improving learning in both online and offline reinforcement learning to learn to drive an autonomous vehicle with methods that generalizes well to roads not in the training data. Experiments in both simulation and the real-world demonstrate that predictive representations in reinforcement learning improve learning efficiency, smoothness of control and generalization to roads that the agent was never shown during training, including damaged lane markings. It was found that learning a predictive representation that consists of several predictions over different time scales, or discount factors, improves the performance and smoothness of the control substantially. The Jackal robot was trained in a two step process where the predictive representation is learned first followed by a batch reinforcement learning algorithm (BCQ) from data collected through both automated and human-guided exploration in the environment. We conclude that out-of-policy predictive representations with GVFs offer reinforcement learning many benefits in real-world problems. 

Title: Can Increasing Input Dimensionality Improve Deep Reinforcement Learning?
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms have recently achieved remarkable successes in various sequential decision making tasks, leveraging advances in methods for training large deep networks. However, these methods usually require large amounts of training data, which is often a big problem for real-world applications. One natural question to ask is whether learning good representations for states and using larger networks helps in learning better policies. In this paper, we try to study if increasing input dimensionality helps improve performance and sample efficiency of model-free deep RL algorithms. To do so, we propose an online feature extractor network (OFENet) that uses neural nets to produce good representations to be used as inputs to deep RL algorithms. Even though the high dimensionality of input is usually supposed to make learning of RL agents more difficult, we show that the RL agents in fact learn more efficiently with the high-dimensional representation than with the lower-dimensional state observations. We believe that stronger feature propagation together with larger networks (and thus larger search space) allows RL agents to learn more complex functions of states and thus improves the sample efficiency. Through numerical experiments, we show that the proposed method outperforms several other state-of-the-art algorithms in terms of both sample efficiency and performance. Codes for the proposed method are available at http://www.merl.com/research/license/OFENet . 

Title: Deep Lagrangian Networks for end-to-end learning of energy-based control for under-actuated systems
Abstract:  Applying Deep Learning to control has a lot of potential for enabling the intelligent design of robot control laws. Unfortunately common deep learning approaches to control, such as deep reinforcement learning, require an unrealistic amount of interaction with the real system, do not yield any performance guarantees, and do not make good use of extensive insights from model-based control. In particular, common black-box approaches -- that abandon all insight from control -- are not suitable for complex robot systems. We propose a deep control approach as a bridge between the solid theoretical foundations of energy-based control and the flexibility of deep learning. To accomplish this goal, we extend Deep Lagrangian Networks (DeLaN) to not only adhere to Lagrangian Mechanics but also ensure conservation of energy and passivity of the learned representation. This novel extension is embedded within generic model-based control laws to enable energy control of under-actuated systems. The resulting DeLaN for energy control (DeLaN 4EC) is the first model learning approach using generic function approximation that is capable of learning energy control. DeLaN 4EC exhibits excellent real-time control on the physical Furuta Pendulum and learns to swing-up the pendulum while the control law using system identification does not. 

Title: Leveraging Planar Regularities for Point Line Visual-Inertial Odometry
Abstract:  With monocular Visual-Inertial Odometry (VIO) system, 3D point cloud and camera motion can be estimated simultaneously. Because pure sparse 3D points provide a structureless representation of the environment, generating 3D mesh from sparse points can further model the environment topology and produce dense mapping. To improve the accuracy of 3D mesh generation and localization, we propose a tightly-coupled monocular VIO system, PLP-VIO, which exploits point features and line features as well as plane regularities. The co-planarity constraints are used to leverage additional structure information for the more accurate estimation of 3D points and spatial lines in state estimator. To detect plane and 3D mesh robustly, we combine both the line features with point features in the detection method. The effectiveness of the proposed method is verified on both synthetic data and public datasets and is compared with other state-of-the-art algorithms. 

Title: Viewpoint Optimization for Autonomous Strawberry Harvesting with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Autonomous harvesting may provide a viable solution to mounting labor pressures in the United States's strawberry industry. However, due to bottlenecks in machine perception and economic viability, a profitable and commercially adopted strawberry harvesting system remains elusive. In this research, we explore the feasibility of using deep reinforcement learning to overcome these bottlenecks and develop a practical algorithm to address the sub-objective of viewpoint optimization, or the development of a control policy to direct a camera to favorable vantage points for autonomous harvesting. We evaluate the algorithm's performance in a custom, open-source simulated environment and observe encouraging results. Our trained agent yields 8.7 times higher returns than random actions and 8.8 percent faster exploration than our best baseline policy, which uses visual servoing. Visual investigation shows the agent is able to fixate on favorable viewpoints, despite having no explicit means to propagate information through time. Overall, we conclude that deep reinforcement learning is a promising area of research to advance the state of the art in autonomous strawberry harvesting. 

Title: 3D Scan Registration using Curvelet Features in Planetary Environments
Abstract:  Topographic mapping in planetary environments relies on accurate 3D scan registration methods. However, most global registration algorithms relying on features such as FPFH and Harris-3D show poor alignment accuracy in these settings due to the poor structure of the Mars-like terrain and variable resolution, occluded, sparse range data that is hard to register without some a-priori knowledge of the environment. In this paper, we propose an alternative approach to 3D scan registration using the curvelet transform that performs multi-resolution geometric analysis to obtain a set of coefficients indexed by scale (coarsest to finest), angle and spatial position. Features are detected in the curvelet domain to take advantage of the directional selectivity of the transform. A descriptor is computed for each feature by calculating the 3D spatial histogram of the image gradients, and nearest neighbor based matching is used to calculate the feature correspondences. Correspondence rejection using Random Sample Consensus identifies inliers, and a locally optimal Singular Value Decomposition-based estimation of the rigid-body transformation aligns the laser scans given the re-projected correspondences in the metric space. Experimental results on a publicly available data-set of planetary analogue indoor facility, as well as simulated and real-world scans from Neptec Design Group's IVIGMS 3D laser rangefinder at the outdoor CSA Mars yard demonstrates improved performance over existing methods in the challenging sparse Mars-like terrain. 

Title: Geometric Consistency for Self-Supervised End-to-End Visual Odometry
Abstract:  With the success of deep learning based approaches in tackling challenging problems in computer vision, a wide range of deep architectures have recently been proposed for the task of visual odometry (VO) estimation. Most of these proposed solutions rely on supervision, which requires the acquisition of precise ground-truth camera pose information, collected using expensive motion capture systems or high-precision IMU/GPS sensor rigs. In this work, we propose an unsupervised paradigm for deep visual odometry learning. We show that using a noisy teacher, which could be a standard VO pipeline, and by designing a loss term that enforces geometric consistency of the trajectory, we can train accurate deep models for VO that do not require ground-truth labels. We leverage geometry as a self-supervisory signal and propose "Composite Transformation Constraints (CTCs)", that automatically generate supervisory signals for training and enforce geometric consistency in the VO estimate. We also present a method of characterizing the uncertainty in VO estimates thus obtained. To evaluate our VO pipeline, we present exhaustive ablation studies that demonstrate the efficacy of end-to-end, self-supervised methodologies to train deep models for monocular VO. We show that leveraging concepts from geometry and incorporating them into the training of a recurrent neural network results in performance competitive to supervised deep VO methods. 

Title: What's the point? Frame-wise Pointing Gesture Recognition with Latent-Dynamic Conditional Random Fields
Abstract:  We use Latent-Dynamic Conditional Random Fields to perform skeleton-based pointing gesture classification at each time instance of a video sequence, where we achieve a frame-wise pointing accuracy of roughly 83%. Subsequently, we determine continuous time sequences of arbitrary length that form individual pointing gestures and this way reliably detect pointing gestures at a false positive detection rate of 0.63%. 

Title: Solving the Robot-World Hand-Eye(s) Calibration Problem with Iterative Methods
Abstract:  Robot-world, hand-eye calibration is the problem of determining the transformation between the robot end-effector and a camera, as well as the transformation between the robot base and the world coordinate system. This relationship has been modeled as $\mathbf{AX}=\mathbf{ZB}$, where $\mathbf{X}$ and $\mathbf{Z}$ are unknown homogeneous transformation matrices. The successful execution of many robot manipulation tasks depends on determining these matrices accurately, and we are particularly interested in the use of calibration for use in vision tasks. In this work, we describe a collection of methods consisting of two cost function classes, three different parameterizations of rotation components, and separable versus simultaneous formulations. We explore the behavior of this collection of methods on real datasets and simulated datasets, and compare to seven other state-of-the-art methods. Our collection of methods return greater accuracy on many metrics as compared to the state-of-the-art. The collection of methods is extended to the problem of robot-world hand-multiple-eye calibration, and results are shown with two and three cameras mounted on the same robot. 

Title: Autonomous Underwater Vehicle: Electronics and Software Implementation of the Proton AUV
Abstract:  The paper deals with the software and the electronics unit for an autonomous underwater vehicle. The implementation in the electronics unit is the connection and communication between SBC, pixhawk controller and other sensory hardware and actuators. The major implementation of the software unit is the algorithm for object detection based on Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and its models. The Hyperparameters were tuned according to Odroid Xu4 for various models. The maneuvering algorithm uses the MAVLink protocol of the ArduSub project for movement and its simulation. 

Title: DIGIT: A Novel Design for a Low-Cost Compact High-Resolution Tactile Sensor with Application to In-Hand Manipulation
Abstract:  Despite decades of research, general purpose in-hand manipulation remains one of the unsolved challenges of robotics. One of the contributing factors that limit current robotic manipulation systems is the difficulty of precisely sensing contact forces -- sensing and reasoning about contact forces are crucial to accurately control interactions with the environment. As a step towards enabling better robotic manipulation, we introduce DIGIT, an inexpensive, compact, and high-resolution tactile sensor geared towards in-hand manipulation. DIGIT improves upon past vision-based tactile sensors by miniaturizing the form factor to be mountable on multi-fingered hands, and by providing several design improvements that result in an easier, more repeatable manufacturing process, and enhanced reliability. We demonstrate the capabilities of the DIGIT sensor by training deep neural network model-based controllers to manipulate glass marbles in-hand with a multi-finger robotic hand. To provide the robotic community access to reliable and low-cost tactile sensors, we open-source the DIGIT design at https://digit.ml/. 

Title: A novel approach to model exploration for value function learning
Abstract:  Planning and Learning are complementary approaches. Planning relies on deliberative reasoning about the current state and sequence of future reachable states to solve the problem. Learning, on the other hand, is focused on improving system performance based on experience or available data. Learning to improve the performance of planning based on experience in similar, previously solved problems, is ongoing research. One approach is to learn Value function (cost-to-go) which can be used as heuristics for speeding up search-based planning. Existing approaches in this direction use the results of the previous search for learning the heuristics. In this work, we present a search-inspired approach of systematic model exploration for the learning of the value function which does not stop when a plan is available but rather prolongs search such that not only resulting optimal path is used but also extended region around the optimal path. This, in turn, improves both the efficiency and robustness of successive planning. Additionally, the effect of losing admissibility by using ML heuristic is managed by bounding ML with other admissible heuristics. 

Title: Towards a Robust Aerial Cinematography Platform: Localizing and Tracking Moving Targets in Unstructured Environments
Abstract:  The use of drones for aerial cinematography has revolutionized several applications and industries that require live and dynamic camera viewpoints such as entertainment, sports, and security. However, safely controlling a drone while filming a moving target usually requires multiple expert human operators; hence the need for an autonomous cinematographer. Current approaches have severe real-life limitations such as requiring fully scripted scenes, high-precision motion-capture systems or GPS tags to localize targets, and prior maps of the environment to avoid obstacles and plan for occlusion. In this work, we overcome such limitations and propose a complete system for aerial cinematography that combines: (1) a vision-based algorithm for target localization; (2) a real-time incremental 3D signed-distance map algorithm for occlusion and safety computation; and (3) a real-time camera motion planner that optimizes smoothness, collisions, occlusions and artistic guidelines. We evaluate robustness and real-time performance in series of field experiments and simulations by tracking dynamic targets moving through unknown, unstructured environments. Finally, we verify that despite removing previous limitations, our system achieves state-of-the-art performance. Videos of the system in action can be seen at https://youtu.be/ZE9MnCVmumc 

Title: Mobility Enhancement for Elderly
Abstract:  Loss of Mobility is a common handicap to senior citizens. It denies them the ease of movement they would like to have like outdoor visits, movement in hospitals, social outgoings, but more seriously in the day to day in-house routine functions necessary for living etc. Trying to overcome this handicap by means of servant or domestic help and simple wheel chairs is not only costly in the long run, but forces the senior citizen to be at the mercy of sincerity of domestic helps and also the consequent loss of dignity. In order to give a dignified life, the mobility obtained must be at the complete discretion, will and control of the senior citizen. This can be provided only by a reasonably sophisticated and versatile wheel chair, giving enhanced ability of vision, hearing through man-machine interface, and sensor aided navigation and control. More often than not senior people have poor vision which makes it difficult for them to maker visual judgement and so calls for the use of Artificial Intelligence in visual image analysis and guided navigation systems. In this project, we deal with two important enhancement features for mobility enhancement, Audio command and Vision aided obstacle detection and navigation. We have implemented speech recognition algorithm using template of stored words for identifying the voice command given by the user. This frees the user of an agile hand to operate joystick or mouse control. Also, we have developed a new appearance based obstacle detection system using stereo-vision cameras which estimates the distance of nearest obstacle to the wheel chair and takes necessary action. This helps user in making better judgement of route and navigate obstacles. The main challenge in this project is how to navigate in an unknown/unfamiliar environment by avoiding obstacles. 

Title: PIPPS: Flexible Model-Based Policy Search Robust to the Curse of Chaos
Abstract:  Previously, the exploding gradient problem has been explained to be central in deep learning and model-based reinforcement learning, because it causes numerical issues and instability in optimization. Our experiments in model-based reinforcement learning imply that the problem is not just a numerical issue, but it may be caused by a fundamental chaos-like nature of long chains of nonlinear computations. Not only do the magnitudes of the gradients become large, the direction of the gradients becomes essentially random. We show that reparameterization gradients suffer from the problem, while likelihood ratio gradients are robust. Using our insights, we develop a model-based policy search framework, Probabilistic Inference for Particle-Based Policy Search (PIPPS), which is easily extensible, and allows for almost arbitrary models and policies, while simultaneously matching the performance of previous data-efficient learning algorithms. Finally, we invent the total propagation algorithm, which efficiently computes a union over all pathwise derivative depths during a single backwards pass, automatically giving greater weight to estimators with lower variance, sometimes improving over reparameterization gradients by $10^6$ times. 

Title: IV-SLAM: Introspective Vision for Simultaneous Localization and Mapping
Abstract:  Existing solutions to visual simultaneous localization and mapping (V-SLAM) assume that errors in feature extraction and matching are independent and identically distributed (i.i.d), but this assumption is known to not be true -- features extracted from low-contrast regions of images exhibit wider error distributions than features from sharp corners. Furthermore, V-SLAM algorithms are prone to catastrophic tracking failures when sensed images include challenging conditions such as specular reflections, lens flare, or shadows of dynamic objects. To address such failures, previous work has focused on building more robust visual frontends, to filter out challenging features. In this paper, we present introspective vision for SLAM (IV-SLAM), a fundamentally different approach for addressing these challenges. IV-SLAM explicitly models the noise process of reprojection errors from visual features to be context-dependent, and hence non-i.i.d. We introduce an autonomously supervised approach for IV-SLAM to collect training data to learn such a context-aware noise model. Using this learned noise model, IV-SLAM guides feature extraction to select more features from parts of the image that are likely to result in lower noise, and further incorporate the learned noise model into the joint maximum likelihood estimation, thus making it robust to the aforementioned types of errors. We present empirical results to demonstrate that IV-SLAM 1) is able to accurately predict sources of error in input images, 2) reduces tracking error compared to V-SLAM, and 3) increases the mean distance between tracking failures by more than 70% on challenging real robot data compared to V-SLAM. 

Title: Lifelong Federated Reinforcement Learning: A Learning Architecture for Navigation in Cloud Robotic Systems
Abstract:  This paper was motivated by the problem of how to make robots fuse and transfer their experience so that they can effectively use prior knowledge and quickly adapt to new environments. To address the problem, we present a learning architecture for navigation in cloud robotic systems: Lifelong Federated Reinforcement Learning (LFRL). In the work, We propose a knowledge fusion algorithm for upgrading a shared model deployed on the cloud. Then, effective transfer learning methods in LFRL are introduced. LFRL is consistent with human cognitive science and fits well in cloud robotic systems. Experiments show that LFRL greatly improves the efficiency of reinforcement learning for robot navigation. The cloud robotic system deployment also shows that LFRL is capable of fusing prior knowledge. In addition, we release a cloud robotic navigation-learning website based on LFRL. 

Title: Discontinuity-Sensitive Optimal Control Learning by Mixture of Experts
Abstract:  This paper proposes a discontinuity-sensitive approach to learn the solutions of parametric optimal control problems with high accuracy. Many tasks, ranging from model predictive control to reinforcement learning, may be solved by learning optimal solutions as a function of problem parameters. However, nonconvexity, discrete homotopy classes, and control switching cause discontinuity in the parameter-solution mapping, thus making learning difficult for traditional continuous function approximators. A mixture of experts (MoE) model composed of a classifier and several regressors is proposed to address such an issue. The optimal trajectories of different parameters are clustered such that in each cluster the trajectories are continuous function of problem parameters. Numerical examples on benchmark problems show that training the classifier and regressors individually outperforms joint training of MoE. With suitably chosen clusters, this approach not only achieves lower prediction error with less training data and fewer model parameters, but also leads to dramatic improvements in the reliability of trajectory tracking compared to traditional universal function approximation models (e.g., neural networks). 

Title: What the Constant Velocity Model Can Teach Us About Pedestrian Motion Prediction
Abstract:  Pedestrian motion prediction is a fundamental task for autonomous robots and vehicles to operate safely. In recent years many complex approaches based on neural networks have been proposed to address this problem. In this work we show that - surprisingly - a simple Constant Velocity Model can outperform even state-of-the-art neural models. This indicates that either neural networks are not able to make use of the additional information they are provided with, or that this information is not as relevant as commonly believed. Therefore, we analyze how neural networks process their input and how it impacts their predictions. Our analysis reveals pitfalls in training neural networks for pedestrian motion prediction and clarifies false assumptions about the problem itself. In particular, neural networks implicitly learn environmental priors that negatively impact their generalization capability, the motion history of pedestrians is irrelevant and interactions are too complex to predict. Our work shows how neural networks for pedestrian motion prediction can be thoroughly evaluated and our results indicate which research directions for neural motion prediction are promising in future. 

Title: Decentralized Data Fusion and Active Sensing with Mobile Sensors for Modeling and Predicting Spatiotemporal Traffic Phenomena
Abstract:  The problem of modeling and predicting spatiotemporal traffic phenomena over an urban road network is important to many traffic applications such as detecting and forecasting congestion hotspots. This paper presents a decentralized data fusion and active sensing (D2FAS) algorithm for mobile sensors to actively explore the road network to gather and assimilate the most informative data for predicting the traffic phenomenon. We analyze the time and communication complexity of D2FAS and demonstrate that it can scale well with a large number of observations and sensors. We provide a theoretical guarantee on its predictive performance to be equivalent to that of a sophisticated centralized sparse approximation for the Gaussian process (GP) model: The computation of such a sparse approximate GP model can thus be parallelized and distributed among the mobile sensors (in a Google-like MapReduce paradigm), thereby achieving efficient and scalable prediction. We also theoretically guarantee its active sensing performance that improves under various practical environmental conditions. Empirical evaluation on real-world urban road network data shows that our D2FAS algorithm is significantly more time-efficient and scalable than state-of-the-art centralized algorithms while achieving comparable predictive performance. 

Title: Autonomous Removal of Perspective Distortion based on Detection Results of Robotic Elevator Button Corner
Abstract:  Elevator button recognition is an important function to realize the autonomous operation of elevators. However, challenging image conditions and various image distortions make it difficult to accurately recognize buttons. In this work, We propose a novel algorithm that can automatically correct perspective distortions of elevator panel images based on button corner detection results. The algorithm first leverages DeepLabv3+ model and Hough Transform method to obtain button segmentation results and button corner detection results, then utilizes pixel coordinates of standard button corners as reference features to estimate camera motions for correcting perspective distortions. The algorithm is much more robust to outliers and noise on the removal of perspective distortion than traditional geometric approaches as it only performs on a single image autonomously. 15 elevator panel images are captured from different angles of view as the dataset. The experimental results show that our approach significantly outperforms traditional geometric techniques in accuracy and robustness. Rectification results of the proposed algorithm is 77.4% better than the results of traditional geometric algorithm in average. 

Title: Grounding Natural Language Commands to StarCraft II Game States for Narration-Guided Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  While deep reinforcement learning techniques have led to agents that are successfully able to learn to perform a number of tasks that had been previously unlearnable, these techniques are still susceptible to the longstanding problem of {\em reward sparsity}. This is especially true for tasks such as training an agent to play StarCraft II, a real-time strategy game where reward is only given at the end of a game which is usually very long. While this problem can be addressed through reward shaping, such approaches typically require a human expert with specialized knowledge. Inspired by the vision of enabling reward shaping through the more-accessible paradigm of natural-language narration, we investigate to what extent we can contextualize these narrations by grounding them to the goal-specific states. We present a mutual-embedding model using a multi-input deep-neural network that projects a sequence of natural language commands into the same high-dimensional representation space as corresponding goal states. We show that using this model we can learn an embedding space with separable and distinct clusters that accurately maps natural-language commands to corresponding game states . We also discuss how this model can allow for the use of narrations as a robust form of reward shaping to improve RL performance and efficiency. 

Title: Learning Contracting Vector Fields For Stable Imitation Learning
Abstract:  We propose a new non-parametric framework for learning incrementally stable dynamical systems x' = f(x) from a set of sampled trajectories. We construct a rich family of smooth vector fields induced by certain classes of matrix-valued kernels, whose equilibria are placed exactly at a desired set of locations and whose local contraction and curvature properties at various points can be explicitly controlled using convex optimization. With curl-free kernels, our framework may also be viewed as a mechanism to learn potential fields and gradient flows. We develop large-scale techniques using randomized kernel approximations in this context. We demonstrate our approach, called contracting vector fields (CVF), on imitation learning tasks involving complex point-to-point human handwriting motions. 

Title: High Performance Visual Object Tracking with Unified Convolutional Networks
Abstract:  Convolutional neural networks (CNN) based tracking approaches have shown favorable performance in recent benchmarks. Nonetheless, the chosen CNN features are always pre-trained in different tasks and individual components in tracking systems are learned separately, thus the achieved tracking performance may be suboptimal. Besides, most of these trackers are not designed towards real-time applications because of their time-consuming feature extraction and complex optimization details. In this paper, we propose an end-to-end framework to learn the convolutional features and perform the tracking process simultaneously, namely, a unified convolutional tracker (UCT). Specifically, the UCT treats feature extractor and tracking process both as convolution operation and trains them jointly, which enables learned CNN features are tightly coupled with tracking process. During online tracking, an efficient model updating method is proposed by introducing peak-versus-noise ratio (PNR) criterion, and scale changes are handled efficiently by incorporating a scale branch into network. Experiments are performed on four challenging tracking datasets: OTB2013, OTB2015, VOT2015 and VOT2016. Our method achieves leading performance on these benchmarks while maintaining beyond real-time speed. 

Title: Delta Descriptors: Change-Based Place Representation for Robust Visual Localization
Abstract:  Visual place recognition is challenging because there are so many factors that can cause the appearance of a place to change, from day-night cycles to seasonal change to atmospheric conditions. In recent years a large range of approaches have been developed to address this challenge including deep-learnt image descriptors, domain translation, and sequential filtering, all with shortcomings including generality and velocity-sensitivity. In this paper we propose a novel descriptor derived from tracking changes in any learned global descriptor over time, dubbed Delta Descriptors. Delta Descriptors mitigate the offsets induced in the original descriptor matching space in an unsupervised manner by considering temporal differences across places observed along a route. Like all other approaches, Delta Descriptors have a shortcoming - volatility on a frame to frame basis - which can be overcome by combining them with sequential filtering methods. Using two benchmark datasets, we first demonstrate the high performance of Delta Descriptors in isolation, before showing new state-of-the-art performance when combined with sequence-based matching. We also present results demonstrating the approach working with four different underlying descriptor types, and two other beneficial properties of Delta Descriptors in comparison to existing techniques: their increased inherent robustness to variations in camera motion and a reduced rate of performance degradation as dimensional reduction is applied. Source code is made available at https://github.com/oravus/DeltaDescriptors. 

Title: Semantic Image Based Geolocation Given a Map
Abstract:  The problem visual place recognition is commonly used strategy for localization. Most successful appearance based methods typically rely on a large database of views endowed with local or global image descriptors and strive to retrieve the views of the same location. The quality of the results is often affected by the density of the reference views and the robustness of the image representation with respect to viewpoint variations, clutter and seasonal changes. In this work we present an approach for geo-locating a novel view and determining camera location and orientation using a map and a sparse set of geo-tagged reference views. We propose a novel technique for detection and identification of building facades from geo-tagged reference view using the map and geometry of the building facades. We compute the likelihood of camera location and orientation of the query images using the detected landmark (building) identities from reference views, 2D map of the environment, and geometry of building facades. We evaluate our approach for building identification and geo-localization on a new challenging outdoors urban dataset exhibiting large variations in appearance and viewpoint. 

Title: Motion Representation with Acceleration Images
Abstract:  Information of time differentiation is extremely important cue for a motion representation. We have applied first-order differential velocity from a positional information, moreover we believe that second-order differential acceleration is also a significant feature in a motion representation. However, an acceleration image based on a typical optical flow includes motion noises. We have not employed the acceleration image because the noises are too strong to catch an effective motion feature in an image sequence. On one hand, the recent convolutional neural networks (CNN) are robust against input noises. In this paper, we employ acceleration-stream in addition to the spatial- and temporal-stream based on the two-stream CNN. We clearly show the effectiveness of adding the acceleration stream to the two-stream CNN. 

Title: Ctrl-Z: Recovering from Instability in Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  When learning behavior, training data is often generated by the learner itself; this can result in unstable training dynamics, and this problem has particularly important applications in safety-sensitive real-world control tasks such as robotics. In this work, we propose a principled and model-agnostic approach to mitigate the issue of unstable learning dynamics by maintaining a history of a reinforcement learning agent over the course of training, and reverting to the parameters of a previous agent whenever performance significantly decreases. We develop techniques for evaluating this performance through statistical hypothesis testing of continued improvement, and evaluate them on a standard suite of challenging benchmark tasks involving continuous control of simulated robots. We show improvements over state-of-the-art reinforcement learning algorithms in performance and robustness to hyperparameters, outperforming DDPG in 5 out of 6 evaluation environments and showing no decrease in performance with TD3, which is known to be relatively stable. In this way, our approach takes an important step towards increasing data efficiency and stability in training for real-world robotic applications. 

Title: Topological Navigation Graph
Abstract:  In this article, we focus on the utilisation of reactive trajectory imitation controllers for goal-directed mobile robot navigation. We propose a topological navigation graph (TNG) - an imitation-learning-based framework for navigating through environments with intersecting trajectories. The TNG framework represents the environment as a directed graph composed of deep neural networks. Each vertex of the graph corresponds to a trajectory and is represented by a trajectory identification classifier and a trajectory imitation controller. For trajectory following, we propose the novel use of neural object detection architectures. The edges of TNG correspond to intersections between trajectories and are all represented by a classifier. We provide empirical evaluation of the proposed navigation framework and its components in simulated and real-world environments, demonstrating that TNG allows us to utilise non-goal-directed, imitation-learning methods for goal-directed autonomous navigation. 

Title: From proprioception to long-horizon planning in novel environments: A hierarchical RL model
Abstract:  For an intelligent agent to flexibly and efficiently operate in complex environments, they must be able to reason at multiple levels of temporal, spatial, and conceptual abstraction. At the lower levels, the agent must interpret their proprioceptive inputs and control their muscles, and at the higher levels, the agent must select goals and plan how they will achieve those goals. It is clear that each of these types of reasoning is amenable to different types of representations, algorithms, and inputs. In this work, we introduce a simple, three-level hierarchical architecture that reflects these distinctions. The low-level controller operates on the continuous proprioceptive inputs, using model-free learning to acquire useful behaviors. These in turn induce a set of mid-level dynamics, which are learned by the mid-level controller and used for model-predictive control, to select a behavior to activate at each timestep. The high-level controller leverages a discrete, graph representation for goal selection and path planning to specify targets for the mid-level controller. We apply our method to a series of navigation tasks in the Mujoco Ant environment, consistently demonstrating significant improvements in sample-efficiency compared to prior model-free, model-based, and hierarchical RL methods. Finally, as an illustrative example of the advantages of our architecture, we apply our method to a complex maze environment that requires efficient exploration and long-horizon planning. 

Title: Redundant Perception and State Estimation for Reliable Autonomous Racing
Abstract:  In autonomous racing, vehicles operate close to the limits of handling and a sensor failure can have critical consequences. To limit the impact of such failures, this paper presents the redundant perception and state estimation approaches developed for an autonomous race car. Redundancy in perception is achieved by estimating the color and position of the track delimiting objects using two sensor modalities independently. Specifically, learning-based approaches are used to generate color and pose estimates, from LiDAR and camera data respectively. The redundant perception inputs are fused by a particle filter based SLAM algorithm that operates in real-time. Velocity is estimated using slip dynamics, with reliability being ensured through a probabilistic failure detection algorithm. The sub-modules are extensively evaluated in real-world racing conditions using the autonomous race car "gotthard driverless", achieving lateral accelerations up to 1.7G and a top speed of 90km/h. 

Title: Performance Evaluation of Low-Cost Machine Vision Cameras for Image-Based Grasp Verification
Abstract:  Grasp verification is advantageous for autonomous manipulation robots as they provide the feedback required for higher level planning components about successful task completion. However, a major obstacle in doing grasp verification is sensor selection. In this paper, we propose a vision based grasp verification system using machine vision cameras, with the verification problem formulated as an image classification task. Machine vision cameras consist of a camera and a processing unit capable of on-board deep learning inference. The inference in these low-power hardware are done near the data source, reducing the robot's dependence on a centralized server, leading to reduced latency, and improved reliability. Machine vision cameras provide the deep learning inference capabilities using different neural accelerators. Although, it is not clear from the documentation of these cameras what is the effect of these neural accelerators on performance metrics such as latency and throughput. To systematically benchmark these machine vision cameras, we propose a parameterized model generator that generates end to end models of Convolutional Neural Networks(CNN). Using these generated models we benchmark latency and throughput of two machine vision cameras, JeVois A33 and Sipeed Maix Bit. Our experiments demonstrate that the selected machine vision camera and the deep learning models can robustly verify grasp with 97% per frame accuracy. 

Title: Kalman Filtering with Gaussian Processes Measurement Noise
Abstract:  Real-world measurement noise in applications like robotics is often correlated in time, but we typically assume i.i.d. Gaussian noise for filtering. We propose general Gaussian Processes as a non-parametric model for correlated measurement noise that is flexible enough to accurately reflect correlation in time, yet simple enough to enable efficient computation. We show that this model accurately reflects the measurement noise resulting from vision-based Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM), and argue that it provides a flexible means of modeling measurement noise for a wide variety of sensor systems and perception algorithms. We then extend existing results for Kalman filtering with autoregressive processes to more general Gaussian Processes, and demonstrate the improved performance of our approach. 

Title: Transferable Representation Learning in Vision-and-Language Navigation
Abstract:  Vision-and-Language Navigation (VLN) tasks such as Room-to-Room (R2R) require machine agents to interpret natural language instructions and learn to act in visually realistic environments to achieve navigation goals. The overall task requires competence in several perception problems: successful agents combine spatio-temporal, vision and language understanding to produce appropriate action sequences. Our approach adapts pre-trained vision and language representations to relevant in-domain tasks making them more effective for VLN. Specifically, the representations are adapted to solve both a cross-modal sequence alignment and sequence coherence task. In the sequence alignment task, the model determines whether an instruction corresponds to a sequence of visual frames. In the sequence coherence task, the model determines whether the perceptual sequences are predictive sequentially in the instruction-conditioned latent space. By transferring the domain-adapted representations, we improve competitive agents in R2R as measured by the success rate weighted by path length (SPL) metric. 

Title: End to end collision avoidance based on optical flow and neural networks
Abstract:  Optical flow is believed to play an important role in the agile flight of birds and insects. Even though it is a very simple concept, it is rarely used in computer vision for collision avoidance. This work implements a neural network based collision avoidance which was deployed and evaluated on a solely for this purpose refitted car. 

Title: Identifying Unknown Instances for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  In the past few years, we have seen great progress in perception algorithms, particular through the use of deep learning. However, most existing approaches focus on a few categories of interest, which represent only a small fraction of the potential categories that robots need to handle in the real-world. Thus, identifying objects from unknown classes remains a challenging yet crucial task. In this paper, we develop a novel open-set instance segmentation algorithm for point clouds which can segment objects from both known and unknown classes in a holistic way. Our method uses a deep convolutional neural network to project points into a category-agnostic embedding space in which they can be clustered into instances irrespective of their semantics. Experiments on two large-scale self-driving datasets validate the effectiveness of our proposed method. 

Title: D-SLATS: Distributed Simultaneous Localization and Time Synchronization
Abstract:  Through the last decade, we have witnessed a surge of Internet of Things (IoT) devices, and with that a greater need to choreograph their actions across both time and space. Although these two problems, namely time synchronization and localization, share many aspects in common, they are traditionally treated separately or combined on centralized approaches that results in an ineffcient use of resources, or in solutions that are not scalable in terms of the number of IoT devices. Therefore, we propose D-SLATS, a framework comprised of three different and independent algorithms to jointly solve time synchronization and localization problems in a distributed fashion. The First two algorithms are based mainly on the distributed Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) whereas the third one uses optimization techniques. No fusion center is required, and the devices only communicate with their neighbors. The proposed methods are evaluated on custom Ultra-Wideband communication Testbed and a quadrotor, representing a network of both static and mobile nodes. Our algorithms achieve up to three microseconds time synchronization accuracy and 30 cm localization error. 

Title: Human Grasp Classification for Reactive Human-to-Robot Handovers
Abstract:  Transfer of objects between humans and robots is a critical capability for collaborative robots. Although there has been a recent surge of interest in human-robot handovers, most prior research focus on robot-to-human handovers. Further, work on the equally critical human-to-robot handovers often assumes humans can place the object in the robot's gripper. In this paper, we propose an approach for human-to-robot handovers in which the robot meets the human halfway, by classifying the human's grasp of the object and quickly planning a trajectory accordingly to take the object from the human's hand according to their intent. To do this, we collect a human grasp dataset which covers typical ways of holding objects with various hand shapes and poses, and learn a deep model on this dataset to classify the hand grasps into one of these categories. We present a planning and execution approach that takes the object from the human hand according to the detected grasp and hand position, and replans as necessary when the handover is interrupted. Through a systematic evaluation, we demonstrate that our system results in more fluent handovers versus two baselines. We also present findings from a user study (N = 9) demonstrating the effectiveness and usability of our approach with naive users in different scenarios. More results and videos can be found at http://wyang.me/handovers. 

Title: GONet: A Semi-Supervised Deep Learning Approach For Traversability Estimation
Abstract:  We present semi-supervised deep learning approaches for traversability estimation from fisheye images. Our method, GONet, and the proposed extensions leverage Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) to effectively predict whether the area seen in the input image(s) is safe for a robot to traverse. These methods are trained with many positive images of traversable places, but just a small set of negative images depicting blocked and unsafe areas. This makes the proposed methods practical. Positive examples can be collected easily by simply operating a robot through traversable spaces, while obtaining negative examples is time consuming, costly, and potentially dangerous. Through extensive experiments and several demonstrations, we show that the proposed traversability estimation approaches are robust and can generalize to unseen scenarios. Further, we demonstrate that our methods are memory efficient and fast, allowing for real-time operation on a mobile robot with single or stereo fisheye cameras. As part of our contributions, we open-source two new datasets for traversability estimation. These datasets are composed of approximately 24h of videos from more than 25 indoor environments. Our methods outperform baseline approaches for traversability estimation on these new datasets. 

Title: On Evaluation of Embodied Navigation Agents
Abstract:  Skillful mobile operation in three-dimensional environments is a primary topic of study in Artificial Intelligence. The past two years have seen a surge of creative work on navigation. This creative output has produced a plethora of sometimes incompatible task definitions and evaluation protocols. To coordinate ongoing and future research in this area, we have convened a working group to study empirical methodology in navigation research. The present document summarizes the consensus recommendations of this working group. We discuss different problem statements and the role of generalization, present evaluation measures, and provide standard scenarios that can be used for benchmarking. 

Title: VisuoSpatial Foresight for Multi-Step, Multi-Task Fabric Manipulation
Abstract:  Robotic fabric manipulation has applications in home robotics, textiles, senior care and surgery. Existing fabric manipulation techniques, however, are designed for specific tasks, making it difficult to generalize across different but related tasks. We extend the Visual Foresight framework to learn fabric dynamics that can be efficiently reused to accomplish different fabric manipulation tasks with a single goal-conditioned policy. We introduce VisuoSpatial Foresight (VSF), which builds on prior work by learning visual dynamics on domain randomized RGB images and depth maps simultaneously and completely in simulation. We experimentally evaluate VSF on multi-step fabric smoothing and folding tasks against 5 baseline methods in simulation and on the da Vinci Research Kit (dVRK) surgical robot without any demonstrations at train or test time. Furthermore, we find that leveraging depth significantly improves performance. RGBD data yields an 80% improvement in fabric folding success rate over pure RGB data. Code, data, videos, and supplementary material are available at https://sites.google.com/view/fabric-vsf/. 

Title: A Successive-Elimination Approach to Adaptive Robotic Sensing
Abstract:  We study an adaptive source seeking problem, in which a mobile robot must identify the strongest emitter(s) of a signal in an environment with background emissions. Background signals may be highly heterogeneous and can mislead algorithms that are based on receding horizon control. We propose AdaSearch, a general algorithm for adaptive source seeking in the face of heterogeneous background noise. AdaSearch combines global trajectory planning with principled confidence intervals in order to concentrate measurements in promising regions while guaranteeing sufficient coverage of the entire area. Theoretical analysis shows that AdaSearch confers gains over a uniform sampling strategy when the distribution of background signals is highly variable. Simulation experiments demonstrate that when applied to the problem of radioactive source seeking, AdaSearch outperforms both uniform sampling and a receding time horizon information-maximization approach based on the current literature. We also demonstrate AdaSearch in hardware, providing further evidence of its potential for real-time implementation. 

Title: Detecting Robotic Affordances on Novel Objects with Regional Attention and Attributes
Abstract:  This paper presents a framework for predicting affordances of object parts of unseen categories, with application to robot manipulation. The framework generates affordance maps of novel objects within an image via region-based affordance segmentation. Earlier work used category priors while jointly optimizing detection and segmentation to boost accuracy with limited ability to generalize to unknown categories. This work integrates a category-agnostic region proposal network for proposing instance regions of an image across categories. A self-attention mechanism trained to interpret each proposal learns to capture rich contextual dependencies through the region. To further guide affordance learning in the absence of category priors, an auxiliary task of object attribute inference improves local feature learning. Experimental results show that the trained deep network architecture achieves state-of-the-art performance on affordance segmentation of novel objects and outperforms several baselines. An ablation study quantifies the effectiveness and contributions of each proposed component. Experiments demonstrate the use of affordance detection on novel objects for vision tasks and for manipulation. 

Title: RGBD Datasets: Past, Present and Future
Abstract:  Since the launch of the Microsoft Kinect, scores of RGBD datasets have been released. These have propelled advances in areas from reconstruction to gesture recognition. In this paper we explore the field, reviewing datasets across eight categories: semantics, object pose estimation, camera tracking, scene reconstruction, object tracking, human actions, faces and identification. By extracting relevant information in each category we help researchers to find appropriate data for their needs, and we consider which datasets have succeeded in driving computer vision forward and why. Finally, we examine the future of RGBD datasets. We identify key areas which are currently underexplored, and suggest that future directions may include synthetic data and dense reconstructions of static and dynamic scenes. 

Title: Collective Robot Reinforcement Learning with Distributed Asynchronous Guided Policy Search
Abstract:  In principle, reinforcement learning and policy search methods can enable robots to learn highly complex and general skills that may allow them to function amid the complexity and diversity of the real world. However, training a policy that generalizes well across a wide range of real-world conditions requires far greater quantity and diversity of experience than is practical to collect with a single robot. Fortunately, it is possible for multiple robots to share their experience with one another, and thereby, learn a policy collectively. In this work, we explore distributed and asynchronous policy learning as a means to achieve generalization and improved training times on challenging, real-world manipulation tasks. We propose a distributed and asynchronous version of Guided Policy Search and use it to demonstrate collective policy learning on a vision-based door opening task using four robots. We show that it achieves better generalization, utilization, and training times than the single robot alternative. 

Title: Progressive Reinforcement Learning with Distillation for Multi-Skilled Motion Control
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning has demonstrated increasing capabilities for continuous control problems, including agents that can move with skill and agility through their environment. An open problem in this setting is that of developing good strategies for integrating or merging policies for multiple skills, where each individual skill is a specialist in a specific skill and its associated state distribution. We extend policy distillation methods to the continuous action setting and leverage this technique to combine expert policies, as evaluated in the domain of simulated bipedal locomotion across different classes of terrain. We also introduce an input injection method for augmenting an existing policy network to exploit new input features. Lastly, our method uses transfer learning to assist in the efficient acquisition of new skills. The combination of these methods allows a policy to be incrementally augmented with new skills. We compare our progressive learning and integration via distillation (PLAID) method against three alternative baselines. 

Title: Distributed Iterative Learning Control for a Team of Quadrotors
Abstract:  The goal of this work is to enable a team of quadrotors to learn how to accurately track a desired trajectory while holding a given formation. We solve this problem in a distributed manner, where each vehicle has only access to the information of its neighbors. The desired trajectory is only available to one (or few) vehicles. We present a distributed iterative learning control (ILC) approach where each vehicle learns from the experience of its own and its neighbors' previous task repetitions, and adapts its feedforward input to improve performance. Existing algorithms are extended in theory to make them more applicable to real-world experiments. In particular, we prove stability for any causal learning function with gains chosen according to a simple scalar condition. Previous proofs were restricted to a specific learning function that only depends on the tracking error derivative (D-type ILC). Our extension provides more degrees of freedom in the ILC design and, as a result, better performance can be achieved. We also show that stability is not affected by a linear dynamic coupling between neighbors. This allows us to use an additional consensus feedback controller to compensate for non-repetitive disturbances. Experiments with two quadrotors attest the effectiveness of the proposed distributed multi-agent ILC approach. This is the first work to show distributed ILC in experiment. 

Title: Selfie Drone Stick: A Natural Interface for Quadcopter Photography
Abstract:  A physical selfie stick extends the user's reach, enabling the acquisition of personal photos that include more of the background scene. Similarly, a quadcopter can capture photos from vantage points unattainable by the user; but teleoperating a quadcopter to good viewpoints is a difficult task. This paper presents a natural interface for quadcopter photography, the SelfieDroneStick that allows the user to guide the quadcopter to the optimal vantage point based on the phone's sensors. Users specify the composition of their desired long-range selfies using their smartphone, and the quadcopter autonomously flies to a sequence of vantage points from where the desired shots can be taken. The robot controller is trained from a combination of real-world images and simulated flight data. This paper describes two key innovations required to deploy deep reinforcement learning models on a real robot: 1) an abstract state representation for transferring learning from simulation to the hardware platform, and 2) reward shaping and staging paradigms for training the controller. Both of these improvements were found to be essential in learning a robot controller from simulation that transfers successfully to the real robot. 

Title: Multi-Sensor Next-Best-View Planning as Matroid-Constrained Submodular Maximization
Abstract:  3D scene models are useful in robotics for tasks such as path planning, object manipulation, and structural inspection. We consider the problem of creating a 3D model using depth images captured by a team of multiple robots. Each robot selects a viewpoint and captures a depth image from it, and the images are fused to update the scene model. The process is repeated until a scene model of desired quality is obtained. Next-best-view planning uses the current scene model to select the next viewpoints. The objective is to select viewpoints so that the images captured using them improve the quality of the scene model the most. In this paper, we address next-best-view planning for multiple depth cameras. We propose a utility function that scores sets of viewpoints and avoids overlap between multiple sensors. We show that multi-sensor next-best-view planning with this utility function is an instance of submodular maximization under a matroid constraint. This allows the planning problem to be solved by a polynomial-time greedy algorithm that yields a solution within a constant factor from the optimal. We evaluate the performance of our planning algorithm in simulated experiments with up to 8 sensors, and in real-world experiments using two robot arms equipped with depth cameras. 

Title: Learning to Manipulate Deformable Objects without Demonstrations
Abstract:  In this paper we tackle the problem of deformable object manipulation through model-free visual reinforcement learning (RL). In order to circumvent the sample inefficiency of RL, we propose two key ideas that accelerate learning. First, we propose an iterative pick-place action space that encodes the conditional relationship between picking and placing on deformable objects. The explicit structural encoding enables faster learning under complex object dynamics. Second, instead of jointly learning both the pick and the place locations, we only explicitly learn the placing policy conditioned on random pick points. Then, by selecting the pick point that has Maximal Value under Placing (MVP), we obtain our picking policy. This provides us with an informed picking policy during testing, while using only random pick points during training. Experimentally, this learning framework obtains an order of magnitude faster learning compared to independent action-spaces on our suite of deformable object manipulation tasks with visual RGB observations. Finally, using domain randomization, we transfer our policies to a real PR2 robot for challenging cloth and rope coverage tasks, and demonstrate significant improvements over standard RL techniques on average coverage. 

Title: Style Transfer for Co-Speech Gesture Animation: A Multi-Speaker Conditional-Mixture Approach
Abstract:  How can we teach robots or virtual assistants to gesture naturally? Can we go further and adapt the gesturing style to follow a specific speaker? Gestures that are naturally timed with corresponding speech during human communication are called co-speech gestures. A key challenge, called gesture style transfer, is to learn a model that generates these gestures for a speaking agent 'A' in the gesturing style of a target speaker 'B'. A secondary goal is to simultaneously learn to generate co-speech gestures for multiple speakers while remembering what is unique about each speaker. We call this challenge style preservation. In this paper, we propose a new model, named Mix-StAGE, which trains a single model for multiple speakers while learning unique style embeddings for each speaker's gestures in an end-to-end manner. A novelty of Mix-StAGE is to learn a mixture of generative models which allows for conditioning on the unique gesture style of each speaker. As Mix-StAGE disentangles style and content of gestures, gesturing styles for the same input speech can be altered by simply switching the style embeddings. Mix-StAGE also allows for style preservation when learning simultaneously from multiple speakers. We also introduce a new dataset, Pose-Audio-Transcript-Style (PATS), designed to study gesture generation and style transfer. Our proposed Mix-StAGE model significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art approach for gesture generation and provides a path towards performing gesture style transfer across multiple speakers. Link to code, data, and videos: http://chahuja.com/mix-stage 

Title: Improving Semantic Segmentation via Video Propagation and Label Relaxation
Abstract:  Semantic segmentation requires large amounts of pixel-wise annotations to learn accurate models. In this paper, we present a video prediction-based methodology to scale up training sets by synthesizing new training samples in order to improve the accuracy of semantic segmentation networks. We exploit video prediction models' ability to predict future frames in order to also predict future labels. A joint propagation strategy is also proposed to alleviate mis-alignments in synthesized samples. We demonstrate that training segmentation models on datasets augmented by the synthesized samples leads to significant improvements in accuracy. Furthermore, we introduce a novel boundary label relaxation technique that makes training robust to annotation noise and propagation artifacts along object boundaries. Our proposed methods achieve state-of-the-art mIoUs of 83.5% on Cityscapes and 82.9% on CamVid. Our single model, without model ensembles, achieves 72.8% mIoU on the KITTI semantic segmentation test set, which surpasses the winning entry of the ROB challenge 2018. Our code and videos can be found at https://nv-adlr.github.io/publication/2018-Segmentation. 

Title: Generating Robust Supervision for Learning-Based Visual Navigation Using Hamilton-Jacobi Reachability
Abstract:  In Bansal et al. (2019), a novel visual navigation framework that combines learning-based and model-based approaches has been proposed. Specifically, a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) predicts a waypoint that is used by the dynamics model for planning and tracking a trajectory to the waypoint. However, the CNN inevitably makes prediction errors which often lead to collisions in cluttered and tight spaces. In this paper, we present a novel Hamilton-Jacobi (HJ) reachability-based method to generate supervision for the CNN for waypoint prediction in an unseen environment. By modeling CNN prediction error as "disturbances" in robot's dynamics, our generated waypoints are robust to these disturbances, and consequently to the prediction errors. Moreover, using globally optimal HJ reachability analysis leads to predicting waypoints that are time-efficient and avoid greedy behavior. Through simulations and hardware experiments, we demonstrate the advantages of the proposed approach on navigating through cluttered, narrow indoor environments. 

Title: Learning Representations for Predicting Future Activities
Abstract:  Foreseeing the future is one of the key factors of intelligence. It involves understanding of the past and current environment as well as decent experience of its possible dynamics. In this work, we address future prediction at the abstract level of activities. We propose a network module for learning embeddings of the environment's dynamics in a self-supervised way. To take the ambiguities and high variances in the future activities into account, we use a multi-hypotheses scheme that can represent multiple futures. We demonstrate the approach by classifying future activities on the Epic-Kitchens and Breakfast datasets. Moreover, we generate captions that describe the future activities 

Title: UAV-based Autonomous Image Acquisition with Multi-View Stereo Quality Assurance by Confidence Prediction
Abstract:  In this paper we present an autonomous system for acquiring close-range high-resolution images that maximize the quality of a later-on 3D reconstruction with respect to coverage, ground resolution and 3D uncertainty. In contrast to previous work, our system uses the already acquired images to predict the confidence in the output of a dense multi-view stereo approach without executing it. This confidence encodes the likelihood of a successful reconstruction with respect to the observed scene and potential camera constellations. Our prediction module runs in real-time and can be trained without any externally recorded ground truth. We use the confidence prediction for on-site quality assurance and for planning further views that are tailored for a specific multi-view stereo approach with respect to the given scene. We demonstrate the capabilities of our approach with an autonomous Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) in a challenging outdoor scenario. 

Title: Automatic Failure Recovery and Re-Initialization for Online UAV Tracking with Joint Scale and Aspect Ratio Optimization
Abstract:  Current unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) visual tracking algorithms are primarily limited with respect to: (i) the kind of size variation they can deal with, (ii) the implementation speed which hardly meets the real-time requirement. In this work, a real-time UAV tracking algorithm with powerful size estimation ability is proposed. Specifically, the overall tracking task is allocated to two 2D filters: (i) translation filter for location prediction in the space domain, (ii) size filter for scale and aspect ratio optimization in the size domain. Besides, an efficient two-stage re-detection strategy is introduced for long-term UAV tracking tasks. Large-scale experiments on four UAV benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of the presented method which has computation feasibility on a low-cost CPU. 

Title: Learning Accurate and Human-Like Driving using Semantic Maps and Attention
Abstract:  This paper investigates how end-to-end driving models can be improved to drive more accurately and human-like. To tackle the first issue we exploit semantic and visual maps from HERE Technologies and augment the existing Drive360 dataset with such. The maps are used in an attention mechanism that promotes segmentation confidence masks, thus focusing the network on semantic classes in the image that are important for the current driving situation. Human-like driving is achieved using adversarial learning, by not only minimizing the imitation loss with respect to the human driver but by further defining a discriminator, that forces the driving model to produce action sequences that are human-like. Our models are trained and evaluated on the Drive360 + HERE dataset, which features 60 hours and 3000 km of real-world driving data. Extensive experiments show that our driving models are more accurate and behave more human-like than previous methods. 

Title: To Fall Or Not To Fall: A Visual Approach to Physical Stability Prediction
Abstract:  Understanding physical phenomena is a key competence that enables humans and animals to act and interact under uncertain perception in previously unseen environments containing novel object and their configurations. Developmental psychology has shown that such skills are acquired by infants from observations at a very early stage. In this paper, we contrast a more traditional approach of taking a model-based route with explicit 3D representations and physical simulation by an end-to-end approach that directly predicts stability and related quantities from appearance. We ask the question if and to what extent and quality such a skill can directly be acquired in a data-driven way bypassing the need for an explicit simulation. We present a learning-based approach based on simulated data that predicts stability of towers comprised of wooden blocks under different conditions and quantities related to the potential fall of the towers. The evaluation is carried out on synthetic data and compared to human judgments on the same stimuli. 

Title: LESS is More: Rethinking Probabilistic Models of Human Behavior
Abstract:  Robots need models of human behavior for both inferring human goals and preferences, and predicting what people will do. A common model is the Boltzmann noisily-rational decision model, which assumes people approximately optimize a reward function and choose trajectories in proportion to their exponentiated reward. While this model has been successful in a variety of robotics domains, its roots lie in econometrics, and in modeling decisions among different discrete options, each with its own utility or reward. In contrast, human trajectories lie in a continuous space, with continuous-valued features that influence the reward function. We propose that it is time to rethink the Boltzmann model, and design it from the ground up to operate over such trajectory spaces. We introduce a model that explicitly accounts for distances between trajectories, rather than only their rewards. Rather than each trajectory affecting the decision independently, similar trajectories now affect the decision together. We start by showing that our model better explains human behavior in a user study. We then analyze the implications this has for robot inference, first in toy environments where we have ground truth and find more accurate inference, and finally for a 7DOF robot arm learning from user demonstrations. 

Title: Stereo relative pose from line and point feature triplets
Abstract:  Stereo relative pose problem lies at the core of stereo visual odometry systems that are used in many applications. In this work, we present two minimal solvers for the stereo relative pose. We specifically consider the case when a minimal set consists of three point or line features and each of them has three known projections on two stereo cameras. We validate the importance of this formulation for practical purposes in our experiments with motion estimation. We then present a complete classification of minimal cases with three point or line correspondences each having three projections, and present two new solvers that can handle all such cases. We demonstrate a considerable effect from the integration of the new solvers into a visual SLAM system. 

Title: Classifying and sorting cluttered piles of unknown objects with robots: a learning approach
Abstract:  We consider the problem of sorting a densely cluttered pile of unknown objects using a robot. This yet unsolved problem is relevant in the robotic waste sorting business. By extending previous active learning approaches to grasping, we show a system that learns the task autonomously. Instead of predicting just whether a grasp succeeds, we predict the classes of the objects that end up being picked and thrown onto the target conveyor. Segmenting and identifying objects from the uncluttered target conveyor, as opposed to the working area, is easier due to the added structure since the thrown objects will be the only ones present. Instead of trying to segment or otherwise understand the cluttered working area in any way, we simply allow the controller to learn a mapping from an RGBD image in the neighborhood of the grasp to a predicted result---all segmentation etc. in the working area is implicit in the learned function. The grasp selection operates in two stages: The first stage is hardcoded and outputs a distribution of possible grasps that sometimes succeed. The second stage uses a purely learned criterion to choose the grasp to make from the proposal distribution created by the first stage. In an experiment, the system quickly learned to make good pickups and predict correctly, in advance, which class of object it was going to pick up and was able to sort the objects from a densely cluttered pile by color. 

Title: Monocular Urban Localization using Street View
Abstract:  This paper presents a metric global localization in the urban environment only with a monocular camera and the Google Street View database. We fully leverage the abundant sources from the Street View and benefits from its topo-metric structure to build a coarse-to-fine positioning, namely a topological place recognition process and then a metric pose estimation by local bundle adjustment. Our method is tested on a 3 km urban environment and demonstrates both sub-meter accuracy and robustness to viewpoint changes, illumination and occlusion. To our knowledge, this is the first work that studies the global urban localization simply with a single camera and Street View. 

Title: Predictive Coding-based Deep Dynamic Neural Network for Visuomotor Learning
Abstract:  This study presents a dynamic neural network model based on the predictive coding framework for perceiving and predicting the dynamic visuo-proprioceptive patterns. In our previous study [1], we have shown that the deep dynamic neural network model was able to coordinate visual perception and action generation in a seamless manner. In the current study, we extended the previous model under the predictive coding framework to endow the model with a capability of perceiving and predicting dynamic visuo-proprioceptive patterns as well as a capability of inferring intention behind the perceived visuomotor information through minimizing prediction error. A set of synthetic experiments were conducted in which a robot learned to imitate the gestures of another robot in a simulation environment. The experimental results showed that with given intention states, the model was able to mentally simulate the possible incoming dynamic visuo-proprioceptive patterns in a top-down process without the inputs from the external environment. Moreover, the results highlighted the role of minimizing prediction error in inferring underlying intention of the perceived visuo-proprioceptive patterns, supporting the predictive coding account of the mirror neuron systems. The results also revealed that minimizing prediction error in one modality induced the recall of the corresponding representation of another modality acquired during the consolidative learning of raw-level visuo-proprioceptive patterns. 

Title: Learning and Sequencing of Object-Centric Manipulation Skills for Industrial Tasks
Abstract:  Enabling robots to quickly learn manipulation skills is an important, yet challenging problem. Such manipulation skills should be flexible, e.g., be able adapt to the current workspace configuration. Furthermore, to accomplish complex manipulation tasks, robots should be able to sequence several skills and adapt them to changing situations. In this work, we propose a rapid robot skill-sequencing algorithm, where the skills are encoded by object-centric hidden semi-Markov models. The learned skill models can encode multimodal (temporal and spatial) trajectory distributions. This approach significantly reduces manual modeling efforts, while ensuring a high degree of flexibility and re-usability of learned skills. Given a task goal and a set of generic skills, our framework computes smooth transitions between skill instances. To compute the corresponding optimal end-effector trajectory in task space we rely on Riemannian optimal controller. We demonstrate this approach on a 7 DoF robot arm for industrial assembly tasks. 

Title: Neuromorphic Event-Based Slip Detection and suppression in Robotic Grasping and Manipulation
Abstract:  Slip detection is essential for robots to make robust grasping and fine manipulation. In this paper, a novel dynamic vision-based finger system for slip detection and suppression is proposed. We also present a baseline and feature based approach to detect object slips under illumination and vibration uncertainty. A threshold method is devised to autonomously sample noise in real-time to improve slip detection. Moreover, a fuzzy based suppression strategy using incipient slip feedback is proposed for regulating the grip force. A comprehensive experimental study of our proposed approaches under uncertainty and system for high-performance precision manipulation are presented. We also propose a slip metric to evaluate such performance quantitatively. Results indicate that the system can effectively detect incipient slip events at a sampling rate of 2kHz ($\Delta t = 500\mu s$) and suppress them before a gross slip occurs. The event-based approach holds promises to high precision manipulation task requirement in industrial manufacturing and household services. 

Title: SceneCut: Joint Geometric and Object Segmentation for Indoor Scenes
Abstract:  This paper presents SceneCut, a novel approach to jointly discover previously unseen objects and non-object surfaces using a single RGB-D image. SceneCut's joint reasoning over scene semantics and geometry allows a robot to detect and segment object instances in complex scenes where modern deep learning-based methods either fail to separate object instances, or fail to detect objects that were not seen during training. SceneCut automatically decomposes a scene into meaningful regions which either represent objects or scene surfaces. The decomposition is qualified by an unified energy function over objectness and geometric fitting. We show how this energy function can be optimized efficiently by utilizing hierarchical segmentation trees. Moreover, we leverage a pre-trained convolutional oriented boundary network to predict accurate boundaries from images, which are used to construct high-quality region hierarchies. We evaluate SceneCut on several different indoor environments, and the results show that SceneCut significantly outperforms all the existing methods. 

Title: Fast Damage Recovery in Robotics with the T-Resilience Algorithm
Abstract:  Damage recovery is critical for autonomous robots that need to operate for a long time without assistance. Most current methods are complex and costly because they require anticipating each potential damage in order to have a contingency plan ready. As an alternative, we introduce the T-resilience algorithm, a new algorithm that allows robots to quickly and autonomously discover compensatory behaviors in unanticipated situations. This algorithm equips the robot with a self-model and discovers new behaviors by learning to avoid those that perform differently in the self-model and in reality. Our algorithm thus does not identify the damaged parts but it implicitly searches for efficient behaviors that do not use them. We evaluate the T-Resilience algorithm on a hexapod robot that needs to adapt to leg removal, broken legs and motor failures; we compare it to stochastic local search, policy gradient and the self-modeling algorithm proposed by Bongard et al. The behavior of the robot is assessed on-board thanks to a RGB-D sensor and a SLAM algorithm. Using only 25 tests on the robot and an overall running time of 20 minutes, T-Resilience consistently leads to substantially better results than the other approaches. 

Title: Single-Shot Pose Estimation of Surgical Robot Instruments' Shafts from Monocular Endoscopic Images
Abstract:  Surgical robots are used to perform minimally invasive surgery and alleviate much of the burden imposed on surgeons. Our group has developed a surgical robot to aid in the removal of tumors at the base of the skull via access through the nostrils. To avoid injuring the patients, a collision-avoidance algorithm that depends on having an accurate model for the poses of the instruments' shafts is used. Given that the model's parameters can change over time owing to interactions between instruments and other disturbances, the online estimation of the poses of the instrument's shaft is essential. In this work, we propose a new method to estimate the pose of the surgical instruments' shafts using a monocular endoscope. Our method is based on the use of an automatically annotated training dataset and an improved pose-estimation deep-learning architecture. In preliminary experiments, we show that our method can surpass state of the art vision-based marker-less pose estimation techniques (providing an error decrease of 55% in position estimation, 64% in pitch, and 69% in yaw) by using artificial images. 

Title: Learning an Action-Conditional Model for Haptic Texture Generation
Abstract:  Rich haptic sensory feedback in response to user interactions is desirable for an effective, immersive virtual reality or teleoperation system. However, this feedback depends on material properties and user interactions in a complex, non-linear manner. Therefore, it is challenging to model the mapping from material and user interactions to haptic feedback in a way that generalizes over many variations of the user's input. Current methodologies are typically conditioned on user interactions, but require a separate model for each material. In this paper, we present a learned action-conditional model that uses data from a vision-based tactile sensor (GelSight) and user's action as input. This model predicts an induced acceleration that could be used to provide haptic vibration feedback to a user. We trained our proposed model on a publicly available dataset (Penn Haptic Texture Toolkit) that we augmented with GelSight measurements of the different materials. We show that a unified model over all materials outperforms previous methods and generalizes to new actions and new instances of the material categories in the dataset. 

Title: OmniDRL: Robust Pedestrian Detection using Deep Reinforcement Learning on Omnidirectional Cameras
Abstract:  Pedestrian detection is one of the most explored topics in computer vision and robotics. The use of deep learning methods allowed the development of new and highly competitive algorithms. Deep Reinforcement Learning has proved to be within the state-of-the-art in terms of both detection in perspective cameras and robotics applications. However, for detection in omnidirectional cameras, the literature is still scarce, mostly because of their high levels of distortion. This paper presents a novel and efficient technique for robust pedestrian detection in omnidirectional images. The proposed method uses deep Reinforcement Learning that takes advantage of the distortion in the image. By considering the 3D bounding boxes and their distorted projections into the image, our method is able to provide the pedestrian's position in the world, in contrast to the image positions provided by most state-of-the-art methods for perspective cameras. Our method avoids the need of pre-processing steps to remove the distortion, which is computationally expensive. Beyond the novel solution, our method compares favorably with the state-of-the-art methodologies that do not consider the underlying distortion for the detection task. 

Title: Self-supervised 3D Shape and Viewpoint Estimation from Single Images for Robotics
Abstract:  We present a convolutional neural network for joint 3D shape prediction and viewpoint estimation from a single input image. During training, our network gets the learning signal from a silhouette of an object in the input image - a form of self-supervision. It does not require ground truth data for 3D shapes and the viewpoints. Because it relies on such a weak form of supervision, our approach can easily be applied to real-world data. We demonstrate that our method produces reasonable qualitative and quantitative results on natural images for both shape estimation and viewpoint prediction. Unlike previous approaches, our method does not require multiple views of the same object instance in the dataset, which significantly expands the applicability in practical robotics scenarios. We showcase it by using the hallucinated shapes to improve the performance on the task of grasping real-world objects both in simulation and with a PR2 robot. 

Title: Assessment of Faster R-CNN in Man-Machine collaborative search
Abstract:  With the advent of modern expert systems driven by deep learning that supplement human experts (e.g. radiologists, dermatologists, surveillance scanners), we analyze how and when do such expert systems enhance human performance in a fine-grained small target visual search task. We set up a 2 session factorial experimental design in which humans visually search for a target with and without a Deep Learning (DL) expert system. We evaluate human changes of target detection performance and eye-movements in the presence of the DL system. We find that performance improvements with the DL system (computed via a Faster R-CNN with a VGG16) interacts with observer's perceptual abilities (e.g., sensitivity). The main results include: 1) The DL system reduces the False Alarm rate per Image on average across observer groups of both high/low sensitivity; 2) Only human observers with high sensitivity perform better than the DL system, while the low sensitivity group does not surpass individual DL system performance, even when aided with the DL system itself; 3) Increases in number of trials and decrease in viewing time were mainly driven by the DL system only for the low sensitivity group. 4) The DL system aids the human observer to fixate at a target by the 3rd fixation. These results provide insights of the benefits and limitations of deep learning systems that are collaborative or competitive with humans. 

Title: Planning Beyond the Sensing Horizon Using a Learned Context
Abstract:  Last-mile delivery systems commonly propose the use of autonomous robotic vehicles to increase scalability and efficiency. The economic inefficiency of collecting accurate prior maps for navigation motivates the use of planning algorithms that operate in unmapped environments. However, these algorithms typically waste time exploring regions that are unlikely to contain the delivery destination. Context is key information about structured environments that could guide exploration toward the unknown goal location, but the abstract idea is difficult to quantify for use in a planning algorithm. Some approaches specifically consider contextual relationships between objects, but would perform poorly in object-sparse environments like outdoors. Recent deep learning-based approaches consider context too generally, making training/transferability difficult. Therefore, this work proposes a novel formulation of utilizing context for planning as an image-to-image translation problem, which is shown to extract terrain context from semantic gridmaps, into a metric that an exploration-based planner can use. The proposed framework has the benefit of training on a static dataset instead of requiring a time-consuming simulator. Across 42 test houses with layouts from satellite images, the trained algorithm enables a robot to reach its goal 189\% faster than with a context-unaware planner, and within 63\% of the optimal path computed with a prior map. The proposed algorithm is also implemented on a vehicle with a forward-facing camera in a high-fidelity, Unreal simulation of neighborhood houses. 

Title: Model-free Deep Reinforcement Learning for Urban Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Urban autonomous driving decision making is challenging due to complex road geometry and multi-agent interactions. Current decision making methods are mostly manually designing the driving policy, which might result in sub-optimal solutions and is expensive to develop, generalize and maintain at scale. On the other hand, with reinforcement learning (RL), a policy can be learned and improved automatically without any manual designs. However, current RL methods generally do not work well on complex urban scenarios. In this paper, we propose a framework to enable model-free deep reinforcement learning in challenging urban autonomous driving scenarios. We design a specific input representation and use visual encoding to capture the low-dimensional latent states. Several state-of-the-art model-free deep RL algorithms are implemented into our framework, with several tricks to improve their performance. We evaluate our method in a challenging roundabout task with dense surrounding vehicles in a high-definition driving simulator. The result shows that our method can solve the task well and is significantly better than the baseline. 

Title: Deep R-Learning for Continual Area Sweeping
Abstract:  Coverage path planning is a well-studied problem in robotics in which a robot must plan a path that passes through every point in a given area repeatedly, usually with a uniform frequency. To address the scenario in which some points need to be visited more frequently than others, this problem has been extended to non-uniform coverage planning. This paper considers the variant of non-uniform coverage in which the robot does not know the distribution of relevant events beforehand and must nevertheless learn to maximize the rate of detecting events of interest. This continual area sweeping problem has been previously formalized in a way that makes strong assumptions about the environment, and to date only a greedy approach has been proposed. We generalize the continual area sweeping formulation to include fewer environmental constraints, and propose a novel approach based on reinforcement learning in a Semi-Markov Decision Process. This approach is evaluated in an abstract simulation and in a high fidelity Gazebo simulation. These evaluations show significant improvement upon the existing approach in general settings, which is especially relevant in the growing area of service robotics. 

Title: Robotic Ironing with 3D Perception and Force/Torque Feedback in Household Environments
Abstract:  As robotic systems become more popular in household environments, the complexity of required tasks also increases. In this work we focus on a domestic chore deemed dull by a majority of the population, the task of ironing. The presented algorithm improves on the limited number of previous works by joining 3D perception with force/torque sensing, with emphasis on finding a practical solution with a feasible implementation in a domestic setting. Our algorithm obtains a point cloud representation of the working environment. From this point cloud, the garment is segmented and a custom Wrinkleness Local Descriptor (WiLD) is computed to determine the location of the present wrinkles. Using this descriptor, the most suitable ironing path is computed and, based on it, the manipulation algorithm performs the force-controlled ironing operation. Experiments have been performed with a humanoid robot platform, proving that our algorithm is able to detect successfully wrinkles present in garments and iteratively reduce the wrinkleness using an unmodified iron. 

Title: HJB Optimal Feedback Control with Deep Differential Value Functions and Action Constraints
Abstract:  Learning optimal feedback control laws capable of executing optimal trajectories is essential for many robotic applications. Such policies can be learned using reinforcement learning or planned using optimal control. While reinforcement learning is sample inefficient, optimal control only plans an optimal trajectory from a specific starting configuration. In this paper we propose deep optimal feedback control to learn an optimal feedback policy rather than a single trajectory. By exploiting the inherent structure of the robot dynamics and strictly convex action cost, we can derive principled cost functions such that the optimal policy naturally obeys the action limits, is globally optimal and stable on the training domain given the optimal value function. The corresponding optimal value function is learned end-to-end by embedding a deep differential network in the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellmann differential equation and minimizing the error of this equality while simultaneously decreasing the discounting from short- to far-sighted to enable the learning. Our proposed approach enables us to learn an optimal feedback control law in continuous time, that in contrast to existing approaches generates an optimal trajectory from any point in state-space without the need of replanning. The resulting approach is evaluated on non-linear systems and achieves optimal feedback control, where standard optimal control methods require frequent replanning. 

Title: DiversityGAN: Diversity-Aware Vehicle Motion Prediction via Latent Semantic Sampling
Abstract:  Vehicle trajectory prediction is crucial for autonomous driving and advanced driver assistant systems. While existing approaches may sample from a predicted distribution of vehicle trajectories, they lack the ability to explore it -- a key ability for evaluating safety from a planning and verification perspective. In this work, we devise a novel approach for generating realistic and diverse vehicle trajectories. We extend the generative adversarial network (GAN) framework with a low-dimensional approximate semantic space, and shape that space to capture semantics such as merging and turning. We sample from this space in a way that mimics the predicted distribution, but allows us to control coverage of semantically distinct outcomes. We validate our approach on a publicly available dataset and show results that achieve state-of-the-art prediction performance, while providing improved coverage of the space of predicted trajectory semantics. 

Title: Adversarial Evaluation of Autonomous Vehicles in Lane-Change Scenarios
Abstract:  Autonomous vehicles must be comprehensively evaluated before deployed in cities and highways. Current evaluation procedures lack the abilities of weakness-aiming and evolving, thus they could hardly generate adversarial environments for autonomous vehicles, leading to insufficient challenges. To overcome the shortage of static evaluation methods, this paper proposes a novel method to generate adversarial environments with deep reinforcement learning, and to cluster them with a nonparametric Bayesian method. As a representative task of autonomous driving, lane-change is used to demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method. First, two lane-change models are separately developed by a rule-based method and a learning-based method, waiting for evaluation and comparison. Next, adversarial environments are generated by training surrounding interactive vehicles with deep reinforcement learning for local optimal ensembles. Then, a nonparametric Bayesian approach is utilized to cluster the adversarial policies of the interactive vehicles. Finally, the adversarial environment patterns are illustrated and the performances of two lane-change models are evaluated and compared. The simulation results indicate that both models perform significantly worse in adversarial environments than in naturalistic environments, with plenty of weaknesses successfully extracted in a few tests. 

Title: Improving Model-Based Control and Active Exploration with Reconstruction Uncertainty Optimization
Abstract:  Model based predictions of future trajectories of a dynamical system often suffer from inaccuracies, forcing model based control algorithms to re-plan often, thus being computationally expensive, suboptimal and not reliable. In this work, we propose a model agnostic method for estimating the uncertainty of a model?s predictions based on reconstruction error, using it in control and exploration. As our experiments show, this uncertainty estimation can be used to improve control performance on a wide variety of environments by choosing predictions of which the model is confident. It can also be used for active learning to explore more efficiently the environment by planning for trajectories with high uncertainty, allowing faster model learning. 

Title: A Robot that Counts Like a Child -- a Developmental Model of Counting and Pointing
Abstract:  In this paper, a novel neuro-robotics model capable of counting real items is introduced. The model allows us to investigate the interaction between embodiment and numerical cognition. This is composed of a deep neural network capable of image processing and sequential tasks performance, and a robotic platform providing the embodiment - the iCub humanoid robot. The network is trained using images from the robot's cameras and proprioceptive signals from its joints. The trained model is able to count a set of items and at the same time points to them. We investigate the influence of pointing on the counting process and compare our results with those from studies with children. Several training approaches are presented in this paper all of them uses pre-training routine allowing the network to gain the ability of pointing and number recitation (from 1 to 10) prior to counting training. The impact of the counted set size and distance to the objects are investigated. The obtained results on counting performance show similarities with those from human studies. 

Title: Particle Filter Networks with Application to Visual Localization
Abstract:  Particle filtering is a powerful approach to sequential state estimation and finds application in many domains, including robot localization, object tracking, etc. To apply particle filtering in practice, a critical challenge is to construct probabilistic system models, especially for systems with complex dynamics or rich sensory inputs such as camera images. This paper introduces the Particle Filter Network (PFnet), which encodes both a system model and a particle filter algorithm in a single neural network. The PF-net is fully differentiable and trained end-to-end from data. Instead of learning a generic system model, it learns a model optimized for the particle filter algorithm. We apply the PF-net to a visual localization task, in which a robot must localize in a rich 3-D world, using only a schematic 2-D floor map. In simulation experiments, PF-net consistently outperforms alternative learning architectures, as well as a traditional model-based method, under a variety of sensor inputs. Further, PF-net generalizes well to new, unseen environments. 

Title: Human Perception of Intrinsically Motivated Autonomy in Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract:  A challenge in using fully autonomous robots in human-robot interaction (HRI) is to design behavior that is engaging enough to encourage voluntary, long-term interaction, yet robust to the perturbations induced by human interaction. Here we evaluate if an intrinsically motivated, physical robot can address this challenge. We use predictive information maximization as an intrinsic motivation, as simulated experiments showed that this leads to playful, exploratory behavior that is robust to changes in the robot's morphology and environment. To the authors' knowledge there are no previous HRI studies that evaluate the effect of intrinsically motivated behavior in robots on the human perception of those robots. We present a game-like study design, which allows us to focus on the interplay between the robot and the human participant. In contrast to a study design where participants order or control a robot to do a specific task, the robot and the human participants in our study design explore their behaviors without knowledge about any specific goals. We conducted a within-subjects study (N=24) were participants interacted with a fully autonomous Sphero BB8 robot with different behavioral regimes: one realizing an adaptive, intrinsically motivated behavior and the other being reactive, but not adaptive. A quantitative analysis of post-interaction questionnaires showed a significantly higher perception (r=.555, p=.007) of the dimension "Warmth" compared to the baseline behavior. Warmth is considered a primary dimension for social attitude formation in human cognition. A human perceived as warm (i.e. friendly and trustworthy) experiences more positive social interactions. If future work demonstrates that this transfers to human-robot social cognition, then the generic methods presented here could be used to imbue robots with behavior leading to positive perception by humans. 

Title: Active Depth Estimation: Stability Analysis and its Applications
Abstract:  Recovering the 3D structure of the surrounding environment is an essential task in any vision-controlled Structure-from-Motion (SfM) scheme. This paper focuses on the theoretical properties of the SfM, known as the incremental active depth estimation. The term incremental stands for estimating the 3D structure of the scene over a chronological sequence of image frames. Active means that the camera actuation is such that it improves estimation performance. Starting from a known depth estimation filter, this paper presents the stability analysis of the filter in terms of the control inputs of the camera. By analyzing the convergence of the estimator using the Lyapunov theory, we relax the constraints on the projection of the 3D point in the image plane when compared to previous results. Nonetheless, our method is capable of dealing with the cameras' limited field-of-view constraints. The main results are validated through experiments with simulated data. 

Title: When2com: Multi-Agent Perception via Communication Graph Grouping
Abstract:  While significant advances have been made for single-agent perception, many applications require multiple sensing agents and cross-agent communication due to benefits such as coverage and robustness. It is therefore critical to develop frameworks which support multi-agent collaborative perception in a distributed and bandwidth-efficient manner. In this paper, we address the collaborative perception problem, where one agent is required to perform a perception task and can communicate and share information with other agents on the same task. Specifically, we propose a communication framework by learning both to construct communication groups and decide when to communicate. We demonstrate the generalizability of our framework on two different perception tasks and show that it significantly reduces communication bandwidth while maintaining superior performance. 

Title: Rapid Autonomous Car Control based on Spatial and Temporal Visual Cues
Abstract:  We present a novel approach to modern car control utilizing a combination of Deep Convolutional Neural Networks and Long Short-Term Memory Systems: Both of which are a subsection of Hierarchical Representations Learning, more commonly known as Deep Learning. Using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks and Long Short-Term Memory Systems (DCNN/LSTM), we propose an end-to-end approach to accurately predict steering angles and throttle values. We use this algorithm on our latest robot, El Toro Grande 1 (ETG) which is equipped with a variety of sensors in order to localize itself in its environment. Using previous training data and the data that it collects during circuit and drag races, it predicts throttle and steering angles in order to stay on path and avoid colliding into other robots. This allows ETG to theoretically race on any track with sufficient training data. 

Title: Deep Fruit Detection in Orchards
Abstract:  An accurate and reliable image based fruit detection system is critical for supporting higher level agriculture tasks such as yield mapping and robotic harvesting. This paper presents the use of a state-of-the-art object detection framework, Faster R-CNN, in the context of fruit detection in orchards, including mangoes, almonds and apples. Ablation studies are presented to better understand the practical deployment of the detection network, including how much training data is required to capture variability in the dataset. Data augmentation techniques are shown to yield significant performance gains, resulting in a greater than two-fold reduction in the number of training images required. In contrast, transferring knowledge between orchards contributed to negligible performance gain over initialising the Deep Convolutional Neural Network directly from ImageNet features. Finally, to operate over orchard data containing between 100-1000 fruit per image, a tiling approach is introduced for the Faster R-CNN framework. The study has resulted in the best yet detection performance for these orchards relative to previous works, with an F1-score of >0.9 achieved for apples and mangoes. 

Title: Visual Explanation by High-Level Abduction: On Answer-Set Programming Driven Reasoning about Moving Objects
Abstract:  We propose a hybrid architecture for systematically computing robust visual explanation(s) encompassing hypothesis formation, belief revision, and default reasoning with video data. The architecture consists of two tightly integrated synergistic components: (1) (functional) answer set programming based abductive reasoning with space-time tracklets as native entities; and (2) a visual processing pipeline for detection based object tracking and motion analysis. We present the formal framework, its general implementation as a (declarative) method in answer set programming, and an example application and evaluation based on two diverse video datasets: the MOTChallenge benchmark developed by the vision community, and a recently developed Movie Dataset. 

Title: Dynamics-Aware Unsupervised Discovery of Skills
Abstract:  Conventionally, model-based reinforcement learning (MBRL) aims to learn a global model for the dynamics of the environment. A good model can potentially enable planning algorithms to generate a large variety of behaviors and solve diverse tasks. However, learning an accurate model for complex dynamical systems is difficult, and even then, the model might not generalize well outside the distribution of states on which it was trained. In this work, we combine model-based learning with model-free learning of primitives that make model-based planning easy. To that end, we aim to answer the question: how can we discover skills whose outcomes are easy to predict? We propose an unsupervised learning algorithm, Dynamics-Aware Discovery of Skills (DADS), which simultaneously discovers predictable behaviors and learns their dynamics. Our method can leverage continuous skill spaces, theoretically, allowing us to learn infinitely many behaviors even for high-dimensional state-spaces. We demonstrate that zero-shot planning in the learned latent space significantly outperforms standard MBRL and model-free goal-conditioned RL, can handle sparse-reward tasks, and substantially improves over prior hierarchical RL methods for unsupervised skill discovery. 

Title: Kernel Trajectory Maps for Multi-Modal Probabilistic Motion Prediction
Abstract:  Understanding the dynamics of an environment, such as the movement of humans and vehicles, is crucial for agents to achieve long-term autonomy in urban environments. This requires the development of methods to capture the multi-modal and probabilistic nature of motion patterns. We present Kernel Trajectory Maps (KTM) to capture the trajectories of movement in an environment. KTMs leverage the expressiveness of kernels from non-parametric modelling by projecting input trajectories onto a set of representative trajectories, to condition on a sequence of observed waypoint coordinates, and predict a multi-modal distribution over possible future trajectories. The output is a mixture of continuous stochastic processes, where each realisation is a continuous functional trajectory, which can be queried at arbitrarily fine time steps. 

Title: Generating All the Roads to Rome: Road Layout Randomization for Improved Road Marking Segmentation
Abstract:  Road markings provide guidance to traffic participants and enforce safe driving behaviour, understanding their semantic meaning is therefore paramount in (automated) driving. However, producing the vast quantities of road marking labels required for training state-of-the-art deep networks is costly, time-consuming, and simply infeasible for every domain and condition. In addition, training data retrieved from virtual worlds often lack the richness and complexity of the real world and consequently cannot be used directly. In this paper, we provide an alternative approach in which new road marking training pairs are automatically generated. To this end, we apply principles of domain randomization to the road layout and synthesize new images from altered semantic labels. We demonstrate that training on these synthetic pairs improves mIoU of the segmentation of rare road marking classes during real-world deployment in complex urban environments by more than 12 percentage points, while performance for other classes is retained. This framework can easily be scaled to all domains and conditions to generate large-scale road marking datasets, while avoiding manual labelling effort. 

Title: Quantile QT-Opt for Risk-Aware Vision-Based Robotic Grasping
Abstract:  The distributional perspective on reinforcement learning (RL) has given rise to a series of successful Q-learning algorithms, resulting in state-of-the-art performance in arcade game environments. However, it has not yet been analyzed how these findings from a discrete setting translate to complex practical applications characterized by noisy, high dimensional and continuous state-action spaces. In this work, we propose Quantile QT-Opt (Q2-Opt), a distributional variant of the recently introduced distributed Q-learning algorithm for continuous domains, and examine its behaviour in a series of simulated and real vision-based robotic grasping tasks. The absence of an actor in Q2-Opt allows us to directly draw a parallel to the previous discrete experiments in the literature without the additional complexities induced by an actor-critic architecture. We demonstrate that Q2-Opt achieves a superior vision-based object grasping success rate, while also being more sample efficient. The distributional formulation also allows us to experiment with various risk distortion metrics that give us an indication of how robots can concretely manage risk in practice using a Deep RL control policy. As an additional contribution, we perform batch RL experiments in our virtual environment and compare them with the latest findings from discrete settings. Surprisingly, we find that the previous batch RL findings from the literature obtained on arcade game environments do not generalise to our setup. 

Title: Adaptive Experience Selection for Policy Gradient
Abstract:  Policy gradient reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms have achieved impressive performance in challenging learning tasks such as continuous control, but suffer from high sample complexity. Experience replay is a commonly used approach to improve sample efficiency, but gradient estimators using past trajectories typically have high variance. Existing sampling strategies for experience replay like uniform sampling or prioritised experience replay do not explicitly try to control the variance of the gradient estimates. In this paper, we propose an online learning algorithm, adaptive experience selection (AES), to adaptively learn an experience sampling distribution that explicitly minimises this variance. Using a regret minimisation approach, AES iteratively updates the experience sampling distribution to match the performance of a competitor distribution assumed to have optimal variance. Sample non-stationarity is addressed by proposing a dynamic (i.e. time changing) competitor distribution for which a closed-form solution is proposed. We demonstrate that AES is a low-regret algorithm with reasonable sample complexity. Empirically, AES has been implemented for deep deterministic policy gradient and soft actor critic algorithms, and tested on 8 continuous control tasks from the OpenAI Gym library. Ours results show that AES leads to significantly improved performance compared to currently available experience sampling strategies for policy gradient. 

Title: Combining Planning and Deep Reinforcement Learning in Tactical Decision Making for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Tactical decision making for autonomous driving is challenging due to the diversity of environments, the uncertainty in the sensor information, and the complex interaction with other road users. This paper introduces a general framework for tactical decision making, which combines the concepts of planning and learning, in the form of Monte Carlo tree search and deep reinforcement learning. The method is based on the AlphaGo Zero algorithm, which is extended to a domain with a continuous state space where self-play cannot be used. The framework is applied to two different highway driving cases in a simulated environment and it is shown to perform better than a commonly used baseline method. The strength of combining planning and learning is also illustrated by a comparison to using the Monte Carlo tree search or the neural network policy separately. 

Title: Probabilistic Safety Constraints for Learned High Relative Degree System Dynamics
Abstract:  This paper focuses on learning a model of system dynamics online while satisfying safety constraints.Our motivation is to avoid offline system identification or hand-specified dynamics models and allowa system to safely and autonomously estimate and adapt its own model during online operation.Given streaming observations of the system state, we use Bayesian learning to obtain a distributionover the system dynamics. In turn, the distribution is used to optimize the system behavior andensure safety with high probability, by specifying a chance constraint over a control barrier function. 

Title: Towards Practical Multi-Object Manipulation using Relational Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Learning robotic manipulation tasks using reinforcement learning with sparse rewards is currently impractical due to the outrageous data requirements. Many practical tasks require manipulation of multiple objects, and the complexity of such tasks increases with the number of objects. Learning from a curriculum of increasingly complex tasks appears to be a natural solution, but unfortunately, does not work for many scenarios. We hypothesize that the inability of the state-of-the-art algorithms to effectively utilize a task curriculum stems from the absence of inductive biases for transferring knowledge from simpler to complex tasks. We show that graph-based relational architectures overcome this limitation and enable learning of complex tasks when provided with a simple curriculum of tasks with increasing numbers of objects. We demonstrate the utility of our framework on a simulated block stacking task. Starting from scratch, our agent learns to stack six blocks into a tower. Despite using step-wise sparse rewards, our method is orders of magnitude more data-efficient and outperforms the existing state-of-the-art method that utilizes human demonstrations. Furthermore, the learned policy exhibits zero-shot generalization, successfully stacking blocks into taller towers and previously unseen configurations such as pyramids, without any further training. 

Title: Self-Supervised Siamese Learning on Stereo Image Pairs for Depth Estimation in Robotic Surgery
Abstract:  Robotic surgery has become a powerful tool for performing minimally invasive procedures, providing advantages in dexterity, precision, and 3D vision, over traditional surgery. One popular robotic system is the da Vinci surgical platform, which allows preoperative information to be incorporated into live procedures using Augmented Reality (AR). Scene depth estimation is a prerequisite for AR, as accurate registration requires 3D correspondences between preoperative and intraoperative organ models. In the past decade, there has been much progress on depth estimation for surgical scenes, such as using monocular or binocular laparoscopes [1,2]. More recently, advances in deep learning have enabled depth estimation via Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) [3], but training requires a large image dataset with ground truth depths. Inspired by [4], we propose a deep learning framework for surgical scene depth estimation using self-supervision for scalable data acquisition. Our framework consists of an autoencoder for depth prediction, and a differentiable spatial transformer for training the autoencoder on stereo image pairs without ground truth depths. Validation was conducted on stereo videos collected in robotic partial nephrectomy. 

Title: Neural Task Graphs: Generalizing to Unseen Tasks from a Single Video Demonstration
Abstract:  Our goal is to generate a policy to complete an unseen task given just a single video demonstration of the task in a given domain. We hypothesize that to successfully generalize to unseen complex tasks from a single video demonstration, it is necessary to explicitly incorporate the compositional structure of the tasks into the model. To this end, we propose Neural Task Graph (NTG) Networks, which use conjugate task graph as the intermediate representation to modularize both the video demonstration and the derived policy. We empirically show NTG achieves inter-task generalization on two complex tasks: Block Stacking in BulletPhysics and Object Collection in AI2-THOR. NTG improves data efficiency with visual input as well as achieve strong generalization without the need for dense hierarchical supervision. We further show that similar performance trends hold when applied to real-world data. We show that NTG can effectively predict task structure on the JIGSAWS surgical dataset and generalize to unseen tasks. 

Title: Road is Enough! Extrinsic Calibration of Non-overlapping Stereo Camera and LiDAR using Road Information
Abstract:  This paper presents a framework for the targetless extrinsic calibration of stereo cameras and Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) sensors with a non-overlapping Field of View (FOV). In order to solve the extrinsic calibrations problem under such challenging configuration, the proposed solution exploits road markings as static and robust features among the various dynamic objects that are present in urban environment. First, this study utilizes road markings that are commonly captured by the two sensor modalities to select informative images for estimating the extrinsic parameters. In order to accomplish stable optimization, multiple cost functions are defined, including Normalized Information Distance (NID), edge alignment and, plane fitting cost. Therefore a smooth cost curve is formed for global optimization to prevent convergence to the local optimal point. We further evaluate each cost function by examining parameter sensitivity near the optimal point. Another key characteristic of extrinsic calibration, repeatability, is analyzed by conducting the proposed method multiple times with varying randomly perturbed initial points. 

Title: Interactive Trajectory Adaptation through Force-guided Bayesian Optimization
Abstract:  Flexible manufacturing processes demand robots to easily adapt to changes in the environment and interact with humans. In such dynamic scenarios, robotic tasks may be programmed through learning-from-demonstration approaches, where a nominal plan of the task is learned by the robot. However, the learned plan may need to be adapted in order to fulfill additional requirements or overcome unexpected environment changes. When the required adaptation occurs at the end-effector trajectory level, a human operator may want to intuitively show the robot the desired changes by physically interacting with it. In this scenario, the robot needs to understand the human intended changes from noisy haptic data, quickly adapt accordingly and execute the nominal task plan when no further adaptation is needed. This paper addresses the aforementioned challenges by leveraging LfD and Bayesian optimization to endow the robot with data-efficient adaptation capabilities. Our approach exploits the sensed interaction forces to guide the robot adaptation, and speeds up the optimization process by defining local search spaces extracted from the learned task model. We show how our framework quickly adapts the learned spatial-temporal patterns of the task, leading to deformed trajectory distributions that are consistent with the nominal plan and the changes introduced by the human. 

Title: Spatial Action Maps for Mobile Manipulation
Abstract:  Typical end-to-end formulations for learning robotic navigation involve predicting a small set of steering command actions (e.g., step forward, turn left, turn right, etc.) from images of the current state (e.g., a bird's-eye view of a SLAM reconstruction). Instead, we show that it can be advantageous to learn with dense action representations defined in the same domain as the state. In this work, we present "spatial action maps," in which the set of possible actions is represented by a pixel map (aligned with the input image of the current state), where each pixel represents a local navigational endpoint at the corresponding scene location. Using ConvNets to infer spatial action maps from state images, action predictions are thereby spatially anchored on local visual features in the scene, enabling significantly faster learning of complex behaviors for mobile manipulation tasks with reinforcement learning. In our experiments, we task a robot with pushing objects to a goal location, and find that policies learned with spatial action maps achieve much better performance than traditional alternatives. 

Title: A Survey of Deep Network Solutions for Learning Control in Robotics: From Reinforcement to Imitation
Abstract:  Deep learning techniques have been widely applied, achieving state-of-the-art results in various fields of study. This survey focuses on deep learning solutions that target learning control policies for robotics applications. We carry out our discussions on the two main paradigms for learning control with deep networks: deep reinforcement learning and imitation learning. For deep reinforcement learning (DRL), we begin from traditional reinforcement learning algorithms, showing how they are extended to the deep context and effective mechanisms that could be added on top of the DRL algorithms. We then introduce representative works that utilize DRL to solve navigation and manipulation tasks in robotics. We continue our discussion on methods addressing the challenge of the reality gap for transferring DRL policies trained in simulation to real-world scenarios, and summarize robotics simulation platforms for conducting DRL research. For imitation leaning, we go through its three main categories, behavior cloning, inverse reinforcement learning and generative adversarial imitation learning, by introducing their formulations and their corresponding robotics applications. Finally, we discuss the open challenges and research frontiers. 

Title: CAZSL: Zero-Shot Regression for Pushing Models by Generalizing Through Context
Abstract:  Learning accurate models of the physical world is required for a lot of robotic manipulation tasks. However, during manipulation, robots are expected to interact with unknown workpieces so that building predictive models which can generalize over a number of these objects is highly desirable. In this paper, we study the problem of designing learning agents which can generalize their models of the physical world by building context-aware learning models. The purpose of these agents is to quickly adapt and/or generalize their notion of physics of interaction in the real world based on certain features about the interacting objects that provide different contexts to the predictive models. With this motivation, we present context-aware zero shot learning (CAZSL, pronounced as 'casual') models, an approach utilizing a Siamese network architecture, embedding space masking and regularization based on context variables which allows us to learn a model that can generalize to different parameters or features of the interacting objects. We test our proposed learning algorithm on the recently released Omnipush datatset that allows testing of meta-learning capabilities using low-dimensional data. 

Title: Simultaneous Enhancement and Super-Resolution of Underwater Imagery for Improved Visual Perception
Abstract:  In this paper, we introduce and tackle the simultaneous enhancement and super-resolution (SESR) problem for underwater robot vision and provide an efficient solution for near real-time applications. We present Deep SESR, a residual-in-residual network-based generative model that can learn to restore perceptual image qualities at 2x, 3x, or 4x higher spatial resolution. We supervise its training by formulating a multi-modal objective function that addresses the chrominance-specific underwater color degradation, lack of image sharpness, and loss in high-level feature representation. It is also supervised to learn salient foreground regions in the image, which in turn guides the network to learn global contrast enhancement. We design an end-to-end training pipeline to jointly learn the saliency prediction and SESR on a shared hierarchical feature space for fast inference. Moreover, we present UFO-120, the first dataset to facilitate large-scale SESR learning; it contains over 1500 training samples and a benchmark test set of 120 samples. By thorough experimental evaluation on the UFO-120 and other standard datasets, we demonstrate that Deep SESR outperforms the existing solutions for underwater image enhancement and super-resolution. We also validate its generalization performance on several test cases that include underwater images with diverse spectral and spatial degradation levels, and also terrestrial images with unseen natural objects. Lastly, we analyze its computational feasibility for single-board deployments and demonstrate its operational benefits for visually-guided underwater robots. The model and dataset information will be available at: https://github.com/xahidbuffon/Deep-SESR. 

Title: Active Classification: Theory and Application to Underwater Inspection
Abstract:  We discuss the problem in which an autonomous vehicle must classify an object based on multiple views. We focus on the active classification setting, where the vehicle controls which views to select to best perform the classification. The problem is formulated as an extension to Bayesian active learning, and we show connections to recent theoretical guarantees in this area. We formally analyze the benefit of acting adaptively as new information becomes available. The analysis leads to a probabilistic algorithm for determining the best views to observe based on information theoretic costs. We validate our approach in two ways, both related to underwater inspection: 3D polyhedra recognition in synthetic depth maps and ship hull inspection with imaging sonar. These tasks encompass both the planning and recognition aspects of the active classification problem. The results demonstrate that actively planning for informative views can reduce the number of necessary views by up to 80% when compared to passive methods. 

Title: Introducing SLAMBench, a performance and accuracy benchmarking methodology for SLAM
Abstract:  Real-time dense computer vision and SLAM offer great potential for a new level of scene modelling, tracking and real environmental interaction for many types of robot, but their high computational requirements mean that use on mass market embedded platforms is challenging. Meanwhile, trends in low-cost, low-power processing are towards massive parallelism and heterogeneity, making it difficult for robotics and vision researchers to implement their algorithms in a performance-portable way. In this paper we introduce SLAMBench, a publicly-available software framework which represents a starting point for quantitative, comparable and validatable experimental research to investigate trade-offs in performance, accuracy and energy consumption of a dense RGB-D SLAM system. SLAMBench provides a KinectFusion implementation in C++, OpenMP, OpenCL and CUDA, and harnesses the ICL-NUIM dataset of synthetic RGB-D sequences with trajectory and scene ground truth for reliable accuracy comparison of different implementation and algorithms. We present an analysis and breakdown of the constituent algorithmic elements of KinectFusion, and experimentally investigate their execution time on a variety of multicore and GPUaccelerated platforms. For a popular embedded platform, we also present an analysis of energy efficiency for different configuration alternatives. 

Title: Low-cost LIDAR based Vehicle Pose Estimation and Tracking
Abstract:  Detecting surrounding vehicles by low-cost LIDAR has been drawing enormous attention. In low-cost LIDAR, vehicles present a multi-layer L-Shape. Based on our previous optimization/criteria-based L-Shape fitting algorithm, we here propose a data-driven and model-based method for robust vehicle segmentation and tracking. The new method uses T-linkage RANSAC to take a limited amount of noisy data and performs a robust segmentation for a moving car against noise. Compared with our previous method, T-Linkage RANSAC is more tolerant of observation uncertainties, i.e., the number of sides of the target being observed, and gets rid of the L-Shape assumption. In addition, a vehicle tracking system with Multi-Model Association (MMA) is built upon the segmentation result, which provides smooth trajectories of tracked objects. A manually labeled dataset from low-cost multi-layer LIDARs for validation will also be released with the paper. Experiments on the dataset show that the new approach outperforms previous ones based on multiple criteria. The new algorithm can also run in real-time. 

Title: Learning Heuristic Search via Imitation
Abstract:  Robotic motion planning problems are typically solved by constructing a search tree of valid maneuvers from a start to a goal configuration. Limited onboard computation and real-time planning constraints impose a limit on how large this search tree can grow. Heuristics play a crucial role in such situations by guiding the search towards potentially good directions and consequently minimizing search effort. Moreover, it must infer such directions in an efficient manner using only the information uncovered by the search up until that time. However, state of the art methods do not address the problem of computing a heuristic that explicitly minimizes search effort. In this paper, we do so by training a heuristic policy that maps the partial information from the search to decide which node of the search tree to expand. Unfortunately, naively training such policies leads to slow convergence and poor local minima. We present SaIL, an efficient algorithm that trains heuristic policies by imitating "clairvoyant oracles" - oracles that have full information about the world and demonstrate decisions that minimize search effort. We leverage the fact that such oracles can be efficiently computed using dynamic programming and derive performance guarantees for the learnt heuristic. We validate the approach on a spectrum of environments which show that SaIL consistently outperforms state of the art algorithms. Our approach paves the way forward for learning heuristics that demonstrate an anytime nature - finding feasible solutions quickly and incrementally refining it over time. 

Title: Deep learning approach to control of prosthetic hands with electromyography signals
Abstract:  Natural muscles provide mobility in response to nerve impulses. Electromyography (EMG) measures the electrical activity of muscles in response to a nerve's stimulation. In the past few decades, EMG signals have been used extensively in the identification of user intention to potentially control assistive devices such as smart wheelchairs, exoskeletons, and prosthetic devices. In the design of conventional assistive devices, developers optimize multiple subsystems independently. Feature extraction and feature description are essential subsystems of this approach. Therefore, researchers proposed various hand-crafted features to interpret EMG signals. However, the performance of conventional assistive devices is still unsatisfactory. In this paper, we propose a deep learning approach to control prosthetic hands with raw EMG signals. We use a novel deep convolutional neural network to eschew the feature-engineering step. Removing the feature extraction and feature description is an important step toward the paradigm of end-to-end optimization. Fine-tuning and personalization are additional advantages of our approach. The proposed approach is implemented in Python with TensorFlow deep learning library, and it runs in real-time in general-purpose graphics processing units of NVIDIA Jetson TX2 developer kit. Our results demonstrate the ability of our system to predict fingers position from raw EMG signals. We anticipate our EMG-based control system to be a starting point to design more sophisticated prosthetic hands. For example, a pressure measurement unit can be added to transfer the perception of the environment to the user. Furthermore, our system can be modified for other prosthetic devices. 

Title: Unconstrained Matching of 2D and 3D Descriptors for 6-DOF Pose Estimation
Abstract:  This paper proposes a novel concept to directly match feature descriptors extracted from 2D images with feature descriptors extracted from 3D point clouds. We use this concept to directly localize images in a 3D point cloud. We generate a dataset of matching 2D and 3D points and their corresponding feature descriptors, which is used to learn a Descriptor-Matcher classifier. To localize the pose of an image at test time, we extract keypoints and feature descriptors from the query image. The trained Descriptor-Matcher is then used to match the features from the image and the point cloud. The locations of the matched features are used in a robust pose estimation algorithm to predict the location and orientation of the query image. We carried out an extensive evaluation of the proposed method for indoor and outdoor scenarios and with different types of point clouds to verify the feasibility of our approach. Experimental results demonstrate that direct matching of feature descriptors from images and point clouds is not only a viable idea but can also be reliably used to estimate the 6-DOF poses of query cameras in any type of 3D point cloud in an unconstrained manner with high precision. 

Title: AvE: Assistance via Empowerment
Abstract:  One difficulty in using artificial agents for human-assistive applications lies in the challenge of accurately assisting with a person's goal(s). Existing methods tend to rely on inferring the human's goal, which is challenging when there are many potential goals or when the set of candidate goals is difficult to identify. We propose a new paradigm for assistance by instead increasing the human's ability to control their environment, and formalize this approach by augmenting reinforcement learning with human empowerment. This task-agnostic objective preserves the person's autonomy and ability to achieve any eventual state. We test our approach against assistance based on goal inference, highlighting scenarios where our method overcomes failure modes stemming from goal ambiguity or misspecification. As existing methods for estimating empowerment in continuous domains are computationally hard, precluding its use in real time learned assistance, we also propose an efficient empowerment-inspired proxy metric. Using this, we are able to successfully demonstrate our method in a shared autonomy user study for a challenging simulated teleoperation task with human-in-the-loop training. 

Title: Inexpensive surface electromyography sleeve with consistent electrode placement enables dexterous and stable prosthetic control through deep learning
Abstract:  The dexterity of conventional myoelectric prostheses is limited in part by the small datasets used to train the control algorithms. Variations in surface electrode positioning make it difficult to collect consistent data and to estimate motor intent reliably over time. To address these challenges, we developed an inexpensive, easy-to-don sleeve that can record robust and repeatable surface electromyography from 32 embedded monopolar electrodes. Embedded grommets are used to consistently align the sleeve with natural skin markings (e.g., moles, freckles, scars). The sleeve can be manufactured in a few hours for less than $60. Data from seven intact participants show the sleeve provides a signal-to-noise ratio of 14, a don-time under 11 seconds, and sub-centimeter precision for electrode placement. Furthermore, in a case study with one intact participant, we use the sleeve to demonstrate that neural networks can provide simultaneous and proportional control of six degrees of freedom, even 263 days after initial algorithm training. We also highlight that consistent recordings, accumulated over time to establish a large dataset, significantly improve dexterity. These results suggest that deep learning with a 74-layer neural network can substantially improve the dexterity and stability of myoelectric prosthetic control, and that deep-learning techniques can be readily instantiated and further validated through inexpensive sleeves/sockets with consistent recording locations. 

Title: Precise Synthetic Image and LiDAR (PreSIL) Dataset for Autonomous Vehicle Perception
Abstract:  We introduce the Precise Synthetic Image and LiDAR (PreSIL) dataset for autonomous vehicle perception. Grand Theft Auto V (GTA V), a commercial video game, has a large detailed world with realistic graphics, which provides a diverse data collection environment. Existing works creating synthetic LiDAR data for autonomous driving with GTA V have not released their datasets, rely on an in-game raycasting function which represents people as cylinders, and can fail to capture vehicles past 30 metres. Our work creates a precise LiDAR simulator within GTA V which collides with detailed models for all entities no matter the type or position. The PreSIL dataset consists of over 50,000 frames and includes high-definition images with full resolution depth information, semantic segmentation (images), point-wise segmentation (point clouds), and detailed annotations for all vehicles and people. Collecting additional data with our framework is entirely automatic and requires no human annotation of any kind. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our dataset by showing an improvement of up to 5% average precision on the KITTI 3D Object Detection benchmark challenge when state-of-the-art 3D object detection networks are pre-trained with our data. The data and code are available at https://tinyurl.com/y3tb9sxy 

Title: The Best of Both Modes: Separately Leveraging RGB and Depth for Unseen Object Instance Segmentation
Abstract:  In order to function in unstructured environments, robots need the ability to recognize unseen novel objects. We take a step in this direction by tackling the problem of segmenting unseen object instances in tabletop environments. However, the type of large-scale real-world dataset required for this task typically does not exist for most robotic settings, which motivates the use of synthetic data. We propose a novel method that separately leverages synthetic RGB and synthetic depth for unseen object instance segmentation. Our method is comprised of two stages where the first stage operates only on depth to produce rough initial masks, and the second stage refines these masks with RGB. Surprisingly, our framework is able to learn from synthetic RGB-D data where the RGB is non-photorealistic. To train our method, we introduce a large-scale synthetic dataset of random objects on tabletops. We show that our method, trained on this dataset, can produce sharp and accurate masks, outperforming state-of-the-art methods on unseen object instance segmentation. We also show that our method can segment unseen objects for robot grasping. Code, models and video can be found at https://rse-lab.cs.washington.edu/projects/unseen-object-instance-segmentation/. 

Title: Inferring Compact Representations for Efficient Natural Language Understanding of Robot Instructions
Abstract:  The speed and accuracy with which robots are able to interpret natural language is fundamental to realizing effective human-robot interaction. A great deal of attention has been paid to developing models and approximate inference algorithms that improve the efficiency of language understanding. However, existing methods still attempt to reason over a representation of the environment that is flat and unnecessarily detailed, which limits scalability. An open problem is then to develop methods capable of producing the most compact environment model sufficient for accurate and efficient natural language understanding. We propose a model that leverages environment-related information encoded within instructions to identify the subset of observations and perceptual classifiers necessary to perceive a succinct, instruction-specific environment representation. The framework uses three probabilistic graphical models trained from a corpus of annotated instructions to infer salient scene semantics, perceptual classifiers, and grounded symbols. Experimental results on two robots operating in different environments demonstrate that by exploiting the content and the structure of the instructions, our method learns compact environment representations that significantly improve the efficiency of natural language symbol grounding. 

Title: cvpaper.challenge in 2015 - A review of CVPR2015 and DeepSurvey
Abstract:  The "cvpaper.challenge" is a group composed of members from AIST, Tokyo Denki Univ. (TDU), and Univ. of Tsukuba that aims to systematically summarize papers on computer vision, pattern recognition, and related fields. For this particular review, we focused on reading the ALL 602 conference papers presented at the CVPR2015, the premier annual computer vision event held in June 2015, in order to grasp the trends in the field. Further, we are proposing "DeepSurvey" as a mechanism embodying the entire process from the reading through all the papers, the generation of ideas, and to the writing of paper. 

Title: Expecting the Unexpected: Developing Autonomous-System Design Principles for Reacting to Unpredicted Events and Conditions
Abstract:  When developing autonomous systems, engineers and other stakeholders make great effort to prepare the system for all foreseeable events and conditions. However, these systems are still bound to encounter events and conditions that were not considered at design time. For reasons like safety, cost, or ethics, it is often highly desired that these new situations be handled correctly upon first encounter. In this paper we first justify our position that there will always exist unpredicted events and conditions, driven among others by: new inventions in the real world; the diversity of world-wide system deployments and uses; and, the non-negligible probability that multiple seemingly unlikely events, which may be neglected at design time, will not only occur, but occur together. We then argue that despite this unpredictability property, handling these events and conditions is indeed possible. Hence, we offer and exemplify design principles that when applied in advance, can enable systems to deal, in the future, with unpredicted circumstances. We conclude with a discussion of how this work and a broader theoretical study of the unexpected can contribute toward a foundation of engineering principles for developing trustworthy next-generation autonomous systems. 

Title: Deep Network Uncertainty Maps for Indoor Navigation
Abstract:  Most mobile robots for indoor use rely on 2D laser scanners for localization, mapping and navigation. These sensors, however, cannot detect transparent surfaces or measure the full occupancy of complex objects such as tables. Deep Neural Networks have recently been proposed to overcome this limitation by learning to estimate object occupancy. These estimates are nevertheless subject to uncertainty, making the evaluation of their confidence an important issue for these measures to be useful for autonomous navigation and mapping. In this work we approach the problem from two sides. First we discuss uncertainty estimation in deep models, proposing a solution based on a fully convolutional neural network. The proposed architecture is not restricted by the assumption that the uncertainty follows a Gaussian model, as in the case of many popular solutions for deep model uncertainty estimation, such as Monte-Carlo Dropout. We present results showing that uncertainty over obstacle distances is actually better modeled with a Laplace distribution. Then, we propose a novel approach to build maps based on Deep Neural Network uncertainty models. In particular, we present an algorithm to build a map that includes information over obstacle distance estimates while taking into account the level of uncertainty in each estimate. We show how the constructed map can be used to increase global navigation safety by planning trajectories which avoid areas of high uncertainty, enabling higher autonomy for mobile robots in indoor settings. 

Title: Fast and Robust Feature Matching for RGB-D Based Localization
Abstract:  In this paper we present a novel approach to global localization using an RGB-D camera in maps of visual features. For large maps, the performance of pure image matching techniques decays in terms of robustness and computational cost. Particularly, repeated occurrences of similar features due to repeating structure in the world (e.g., doorways, chairs, etc.) or missing associations between observations pose critical challenges to visual localization. We address these challenges using a two-step approach. We first estimate a candidate pose using few correspondences between features of the current camera frame and the feature map. The initial set of correspondences is established by proximity in feature space. The initial pose estimate is used in the second step to guide spatial matching of features in 3D, i.e., searching for associations where the image features are expected to be found in the map. A RANSAC algorithm is used to compute a fine estimation of the pose from the correspondences. Our approach clearly outperforms localization based on feature matching exclusively in feature space, both in terms of estimation accuracy and robustness to failure and allows for global localization in real time (30Hz). 

Title: Exploring Deep and Recurrent Architectures for Optimal Control
Abstract:  Sophisticated multilayer neural networks have achieved state of the art results on multiple supervised tasks. However, successful applications of such multilayer networks to control have so far been limited largely to the perception portion of the control pipeline. In this paper, we explore the application of deep and recurrent neural networks to a continuous, high-dimensional locomotion task, where the network is used to represent a control policy that maps the state of the system (represented by joint angles) directly to the torques at each joint. By using a recent reinforcement learning algorithm called guided policy search, we can successfully train neural network controllers with thousands of parameters, allowing us to compare a variety of architectures. We discuss the differences between the locomotion control task and previous supervised perception tasks, present experimental results comparing various architectures, and discuss future directions in the application of techniques from deep learning to the problem of optimal control. 

Title: Deep Auxiliary Learning for Visual Localization and Odometry
Abstract:  Localization is an indispensable component of a robot's autonomy stack that enables it to determine where it is in the environment, essentially making it a precursor for any action execution or planning. Although convolutional neural networks have shown promising results for visual localization, they are still grossly outperformed by state-of-the-art local feature-based techniques. In this work, we propose VLocNet, a new convolutional neural network architecture for 6-DoF global pose regression and odometry estimation from consecutive monocular images. Our multitask model incorporates hard parameter sharing, thus being compact and enabling real-time inference, in addition to being end-to-end trainable. We propose a novel loss function that utilizes auxiliary learning to leverage relative pose information during training, thereby constraining the search space to obtain consistent pose estimates. We evaluate our proposed VLocNet on indoor as well as outdoor datasets and show that even our single task model exceeds the performance of state-of-the-art deep architectures for global localization, while achieving competitive performance for visual odometry estimation. Furthermore, we present extensive experimental evaluations utilizing our proposed Geometric Consistency Loss that show the effectiveness of multitask learning and demonstrate that our model is the first deep learning technique to be on par with, and in some cases outperforms state-of-the-art SIFT-based approaches. 

Title: MID-Fusion: Octree-based Object-Level Multi-Instance Dynamic SLAM
Abstract:  We propose a new multi-instance dynamic RGB-D SLAM system using an object-level octree-based volumetric representation. It can provide robust camera tracking in dynamic environments and at the same time, continuously estimate geometric, semantic, and motion properties for arbitrary objects in the scene. For each incoming frame, we perform instance segmentation to detect objects and refine mask boundaries using geometric and motion information. Meanwhile, we estimate the pose of each existing moving object using an object-oriented tracking method and robustly track the camera pose against the static scene. Based on the estimated camera pose and object poses, we associate segmented masks with existing models and incrementally fuse corresponding colour, depth, semantic, and foreground object probabilities into each object model. In contrast to existing approaches, our system is the first system to generate an object-level dynamic volumetric map from a single RGB-D camera, which can be used directly for robotic tasks. Our method can run at 2-3 Hz on a CPU, excluding the instance segmentation part. We demonstrate its effectiveness by quantitatively and qualitatively testing it on both synthetic and real-world sequences. 

Title: Obstacle detection test in real-word traffic contexts for the purposes of motorcycle autonomous emergency braking (MAEB)
Abstract:  Research suggests that a Motorcycle Autonomous Emergency Braking system (MAEB) could influence 25% of the crashes involving powered two wheelers (PTWs). By automatically slowing down a host PTW of up to 10 km/h in inevitable collision scenarios, MAEB could potentially mitigate the crash severity for the riders. The feasibility of automatic decelerations of motorcycles was shown via field trials in controlled environment. However, the feasibility of correct MAEB triggering in the real traffic context is still unclear. In particular, MAEB requires an accurate obstacle detection, the feasibility of which from a single track vehicle has not been confirmed yet. To address this issue, our study presents obstacle detection tests in a real-world MAEB-sensitive crash scenario. 

Title: Semantic Robot Vision Challenge: Current State and Future Directions
Abstract:  The Semantic Robot Vision Competition provided an excellent opportunity for our research lab to integrate our many ideas under one umbrella, inspiring both collaboration and new research. The task, visual search for an unknown object, is relevant to both the vision and robotics communities. Moreover, since the interplay of robotics and vision is sometimes ignored, the competition provides a venue to integrate two communities. In this paper, we outline a number of modifications to the competition to both improve the state-of-the-art and increase participation. 

Title: Outlier-Robust Spatial Perception: Hardness, General-Purpose Algorithms, and Guarantees
Abstract:  Spatial perception is the backbone of many robotics applications, and spans a broad range of research problems, including localization and mapping, point cloud alignment, and relative pose estimation from camera images. Robust spatial perception is jeopardized by the presence of incorrect data association, and in general, outliers. Although techniques to handle outliers do exist, they can fail in unpredictable manners (e.g., RANSAC, robust estimators), or can have exponential runtime (e.g., branch-and-bound). In this paper, we advance the state of the art in outlier rejection by making three contributions. First, we show that even a simple linear instance of outlier rejection is inapproximable: in the worst-case one cannot design a quasi-polynomial time algorithm that computes an approximate solution efficiently. Our second contribution is to provide the first per-instance sub-optimality bounds to assess the approximation quality of a given outlier rejection outcome. Our third contribution is to propose a simple general-purpose algorithm, named adaptive trimming, to remove outliers. Our algorithm leverages recently-proposed global solvers that are able to solve outlier-free problems, and iteratively removes measurements with large errors. We demonstrate the proposed algorithm on three spatial perception problems: 3D registration, two-view geometry, and SLAM. The results show that our algorithm outperforms several state-of-the-art methods across applications while being a general-purpose method. 

Title: Cooperative Perception for 3D Object Detection in Driving Scenarios using Infrastructure Sensors
Abstract:  The perception system of an autonomous vehicle is responsible for mapping sensor observations into a semantic description of the vehicle's environment. 3D object detection is a common function within this system and outputs a list of 3D bounding boxes around objects of interest. Various 3D object detection methods have relied on fusion of different sensor modalities to overcome limitations of individual sensors. However, occlusion, limited field-of-view and low-point density of the sensor data cannot be reliably and cost-effectively addressed by multi-modal sensing from a single point of view. Alternatively, cooperative perception incorporates information from spatially diverse sensors distributed around the environment as a way to mitigate these limitations. This paper proposes two schemes for cooperative 3D object detection. The early fusion scheme combines point clouds from multiple spatially diverse sensing points of view before detection. In contrast, the late fusion scheme fuses the independently estimated bounding boxes from multiple spatially diverse sensors. We evaluate the performance of both schemes using a synthetic cooperative dataset created in two complex driving scenarios, a T-junction and a roundabout. The evaluation show that the early fusion approach outperforms late fusion by a significant margin at the cost of higher communication bandwidth. The results demonstrate that cooperative perception can recall more than 95% of the objects as opposed to 30% for single-point sensing in the most challenging scenario. To provide practical insights into the deployment of such system, we report how the number of sensors and their configuration impact the detection performance of the system. 

Title: High-Performance and Tunable Stereo Reconstruction
Abstract:  Traditional stereo algorithms have focused their efforts on reconstruction quality and have largely avoided prioritizing for run time performance. Robots, on the other hand, require quick maneuverability and effective computation to observe its immediate environment and perform tasks within it. In this work, we propose a high-performance and tunable stereo disparity estimation method, with a peak frame-rate of 120Hz (VGA resolution, on a single CPU-thread), that can potentially enable robots to quickly reconstruct their immediate surroundings and maneuver at high-speeds. Our key contribution is a disparity estimation algorithm that iteratively approximates the scene depth via a piece-wise planar mesh from stereo imagery, with a fast depth validation step for semi-dense reconstruction. The mesh is initially seeded with sparsely matched keypoints, and is recursively tessellated and refined as needed (via a resampling stage), to provide the desired stereo disparity accuracy. The inherent simplicity and speed of our approach, with the ability to tune it to a desired reconstruction quality and runtime performance makes it a compelling solution for applications in high-speed vehicles. 

Title: CARPAL: Confidence-Aware Intent Recognition for Parallel Autonomy
Abstract:  Predicting the behavior of road agents is a difficult and crucial task for both advanced driver assistance and autonomous driving systems. Traditional confidence measures for this important task often ignore the way predicted trajectories affect downstream decisions and their utilities. In this paper we devise a novel neural network regressor to estimate the utility distribution given the predictions. Based on reasonable assumptions on the utility function, we establish a decision criterion that takes into account the role of prediction in decision making. We train our real-time regressor along with a human driver intent predictor and use it in shared autonomy scenarios where decisions depend on the prediction confidence. We test our system on a realistic urban driving dataset, present the advantage of the resulting system in terms of recall and fall-out performance compared to baseline methods, and demonstrate its effectiveness in intervention and warning use cases. 

Title: Efficient Bimanual Manipulation Using Learned Task Schemas
Abstract:  We address the problem of effectively composing skills to solve sparse-reward tasks in the real world. Given a set of parameterized skills (such as exerting a force or doing a top grasp at a location), our goal is to learn policies that invoke these skills to efficiently solve such tasks. Our insight is that for many tasks, the learning process can be decomposed into learning a state-independent task schema (a sequence of skills to execute) and a policy to choose the parameterizations of the skills in a state-dependent manner. For such tasks, we show that explicitly modeling the schema's state-independence can yield significant improvements in sample efficiency for model-free reinforcement learning algorithms. Furthermore, these schemas can be transferred to solve related tasks, by simply re-learning the parameterizations with which the skills are invoked. We find that doing so enables learning to solve sparse-reward tasks on real-world robotic systems very efficiently. We validate our approach experimentally over a suite of robotic bimanual manipulation tasks, both in simulation and on real hardware. See videos at http://tinyurl.com/chitnis-schema. 

Title: IDD: A Dataset for Exploring Problems of Autonomous Navigation in Unconstrained Environments
Abstract:  While several datasets for autonomous navigation have become available in recent years, they tend to focus on structured driving environments. This usually corresponds to well-delineated infrastructure such as lanes, a small number of well-defined categories for traffic participants, low variation in object or background appearance and strict adherence to traffic rules. We propose IDD, a novel dataset for road scene understanding in unstructured environments where the above assumptions are largely not satisfied. It consists of 10,004 images, finely annotated with 34 classes collected from 182 drive sequences on Indian roads. The label set is expanded in comparison to popular benchmarks such as Cityscapes, to account for new classes. It also reflects label distributions of road scenes significantly different from existing datasets, with most classes displaying greater within-class diversity. Consistent with real driving behaviours, it also identifies new classes such as drivable areas besides the road. We propose a new four-level label hierarchy, which allows varying degrees of complexity and opens up possibilities for new training methods. Our empirical study provides an in-depth analysis of the label characteristics. State-of-the-art methods for semantic segmentation achieve much lower accuracies on our dataset, demonstrating its distinction compared to Cityscapes. Finally, we propose that our dataset is an ideal opportunity for new problems such as domain adaptation, few-shot learning and behaviour prediction in road scenes. 

Title: Removing Dynamic Objects for Static Scene Reconstruction using Light Fields
Abstract:  There is a general expectation that robots should operate in environments that consist of static and dynamic entities including people, furniture and automobiles. These dynamic environments pose challenges to visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithms by introducing errors into the front-end. Light fields provide one possible method for addressing such problems by capturing a more complete visual information of a scene. In contrast to a single ray from a perspective camera, Light Fields capture a bundle of light rays emerging from a single point in space, allowing us to see through dynamic objects by refocusing past them. In this paper we present a method to synthesize a refocused image of the static background in the presence of dynamic objects that uses a light-field acquired with a linear camera array. We simultaneously estimate both the depth and the refocused image of the static scene using semantic segmentation for detecting dynamic objects in a single time step. This eliminates the need for initializing a static map . The algorithm is parallelizable and is implemented on GPU allowing us execute it at close to real time speeds. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on real-world data acquired using a small robot with a five camera array. 

Title: Expanding a robot's life: Low power object recognition via FPGA-based DCNN deployment
Abstract:  FPGAs are commonly used to accelerate domain-specific algorithmic implementations, as they can achieve impressive performance boosts, are reprogrammable and exhibit minimal power consumption. In this work, the SqueezeNet DCNN is accelerated using an SoC FPGA in order for the offered object recognition resource to be employed in a robotic application. Experiments are conducted to investigate the performance and power consumption of the implementation in comparison to deployment on other widely-used computational systems. 

Title: Robust Model-free Reinforcement Learning with Multi-objective Bayesian Optimization
Abstract:  In reinforcement learning (RL), an autonomous agent learns to perform complex tasks by maximizing an exogenous reward signal while interacting with its environment. In real-world applications, test conditions may differ substantially from the training scenario and, therefore, focusing on pure reward maximization during training may lead to poor results at test time. In these cases, it is important to trade-off between performance and robustness while learning a policy. While several results exist for robust, model-based RL, the model-free case has not been widely investigated. In this paper, we cast the robust, model-free RL problem as a multi-objective optimization problem. To quantify the robustness of a policy, we use delay margin and gain margin, two robustness indicators that are common in control theory. We show how these metrics can be estimated from data in the model-free setting. We use multi-objective Bayesian optimization (MOBO) to solve efficiently this expensive-to-evaluate, multi-objective optimization problem. We show the benefits of our robust formulation both in sim-to-real and pure hardware experiments to balance a Furuta pendulum. 

Title: City-Scale Road Audit System using Deep Learning
Abstract:  Road networks in cities are massive and is a critical component of mobility. Fast response to defects, that can occur not only due to regular wear and tear but also because of extreme events like storms, is essential. Hence there is a need for an automated system that is quick, scalable and cost-effective for gathering information about defects. We propose a system for city-scale road audit, using some of the most recent developments in deep learning and semantic segmentation. For building and benchmarking the system, we curated a dataset which has annotations required for road defects. However, many of the labels required for road audit have high ambiguity which we overcome by proposing a label hierarchy. We also propose a multi-step deep learning model that segments the road, subdivide the road further into defects, tags the frame for each defect and finally localizes the defects on a map gathered using GPS. We analyze and evaluate the models on image tagging as well as segmentation at different levels of the label hierarchy. 

Title: Modular Deep Q Networks for Sim-to-real Transfer of Visuo-motor Policies
Abstract:  While deep learning has had significant successes in computer vision thanks to the abundance of visual data, collecting sufficiently large real-world datasets for robot learning can be costly. To increase the practicality of these techniques on real robots, we propose a modular deep reinforcement learning method capable of transferring models trained in simulation to a real-world robotic task. We introduce a bottleneck between perception and control, enabling the networks to be trained independently, but then merged and fine-tuned in an end-to-end manner to further improve hand-eye coordination. On a canonical, planar visually-guided robot reaching task a fine-tuned accuracy of 1.6 pixels is achieved, a significant improvement over naive transfer (17.5 pixels), showing the potential for more complicated and broader applications. Our method provides a technique for more efficient learning and transfer of visuo-motor policies for real robotic systems without relying entirely on large real-world robot datasets. 

Title: Hindsight for Foresight: Unsupervised Structured Dynamics Models from Physical Interaction
Abstract:  A key challenge for an agent learning to interact with the world is to reason about physical properties of objects and to foresee their dynamics under the effect of applied forces. In order to scale learning through interaction to many objects and scenes, robots should be able to improve their own performance from real-world experience without requiring human supervision. To this end, we propose a novel approach for modeling the dynamics of a robot's interactions directly from unlabeled 3D point clouds and images. Unlike previous approaches, our method does not require ground-truth data associations provided by a tracker or any pre-trained perception network. To learn from unlabeled real-world interaction data, we enforce consistency of estimated 3D clouds, actions and 2D images with observed ones. Our joint forward and inverse network learns to segment a scene into salient object parts and predicts their 3D motion under the effect of applied actions. Moreover, our object-centric model outputs action-conditioned 3D scene flow, object masks and 2D optical flow as emergent properties. Our extensive evaluation both in simulation and with real-world data demonstrates that our formulation leads to effective, interpretable models that can be used for visuomotor control and planning. Videos, code and dataset are available at http://hind4sight.cs.uni-freiburg.de 

Title: SemanticPOSS: A Point Cloud Dataset with Large Quantity of Dynamic Instances
Abstract:  3D semantic segmentation is one of the key tasks for autonomous driving system. Recently, deep learning models for 3D semantic segmentation task have been widely researched, but they usually require large amounts of training data. However, the present datasets for 3D semantic segmentation are lack of point-wise annotation, diversiform scenes and dynamic objects. In this paper, we propose the SemanticPOSS dataset, which contains 2988 various and complicated LiDAR scans with large quantity of dynamic instances. The data is collected in Peking University and uses the same data format as SemanticKITTI. In addition, we evaluate several typical 3D semantic segmentation models on our SemanticPOSS dataset. Experimental results show that SemanticPOSS can help to improve the prediction accuracy of dynamic objects as people, car in some degree. SemanticPOSS will be published at \url{www.poss.pku.edu.cn}. 

Title: Cooperative Control of Mobile Robots with Stackelberg Learning
Abstract:  Multi-robot cooperation requires agents to make decisions that are consistent with the shared goal without disregarding action-specific preferences that might arise from asymmetry in capabilities and individual objectives. To accomplish this goal, we propose a method named SLiCC: Stackelberg Learning in Cooperative Control. SLiCC models the problem as a partially observable stochastic game composed of Stackelberg bimatrix games, and uses deep reinforcement learning to obtain the payoff matrices associated with these games. Appropriate cooperative actions are then selected with the derived Stackelberg equilibria. Using a bi-robot cooperative object transportation problem, we validate the performance of SLiCC against centralized multi-agent Q-learning and demonstrate that SLiCC achieves better combined utility. 

Title: Scalable End-to-End Autonomous Vehicle Testing via Rare-event Simulation
Abstract:  While recent developments in autonomous vehicle (AV) technology highlight substantial progress, we lack tools for rigorous and scalable testing. Real-world testing, the $\textit{de facto}$ evaluation environment, places the public in danger, and, due to the rare nature of accidents, will require billions of miles in order to statistically validate performance claims. We implement a simulation framework that can test an entire modern autonomous driving system, including, in particular, systems that employ deep-learning perception and control algorithms. Using adaptive importance-sampling methods to accelerate rare-event probability evaluation, we estimate the probability of an accident under a base distribution governing standard traffic behavior. We demonstrate our framework on a highway scenario, accelerating system evaluation by $2$-$20$ times over naive Monte Carlo sampling methods and $10$-$300 \mathsf{P}$ times (where $\mathsf{P}$ is the number of processors) over real-world testing. 

Title: FarSee-Net: Real-Time Semantic Segmentation by Efficient Multi-scale Context Aggregation and Feature Space Super-resolution
Abstract:  Real-time semantic segmentation is desirable in many robotic applications with limited computation resources. One challenge of semantic segmentation is to deal with the object scale variations and leverage the context. How to perform multi-scale context aggregation within limited computation budget is important. In this paper, firstly, we introduce a novel and efficient module called Cascaded Factorized Atrous Spatial Pyramid Pooling (CF-ASPP). It is a lightweight cascaded structure for Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) to efficiently leverage context information. On the other hand, for runtime efficiency, state-of-the-art methods will quickly decrease the spatial size of the inputs or feature maps in the early network stages. The final high-resolution result is usually obtained by non-parametric up-sampling operation (e.g. bilinear interpolation). Differently, we rethink this pipeline and treat it as a super-resolution process. We use optimized super-resolution operation in the up-sampling step and improve the accuracy, especially in sub-sampled input image scenario for real-time applications. By fusing the above two improvements, our methods provide better latency-accuracy trade-off than the other state-of-the-art methods. In particular, we achieve 68.4% mIoU at 84 fps on the Cityscapes test set with a single Nivida Titan X (Maxwell) GPU card. The proposed module can be plugged into any feature extraction CNN and benefits from the CNN structure development. 

Title: Robot Vision Architecture for Autonomous Clothes Manipulation
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel robot vision architecture for perceiving generic 3D clothes configurations. Our architecture is hierarchically structured, starting from low-level curvatures, across mid-level geometric shapes \& topology descriptions; and finally approaching high-level semantic surface structure descriptions. We demonstrate our robot vision architecture in a customised dual-arm industrial robot with our self-designed, off-the-self stereo vision system, carrying out autonomous grasping and dual-arm flattening. It is worth noting that the proposed dual-arm flattening approach is unique among the state-of-the-art robot autonomous system, which is the major contribution of this paper. The experimental results show that the proposed dual-arm flattening using stereo vision system remarkably outperforms the single-arm flattening and widely-cited Kinect-based sensing system for dexterous manipulation tasks. In addition, the proposed grasping approach achieves satisfactory performance on grasping various kind of garments, verifying the capability of proposed visual perception architecture to be adapted to more than one clothing manipulation tasks. 

Title: Human Following for Wheeled Robot with Monocular Pan-tilt Camera
Abstract:  Human following on mobile robots has witnessed significant advances due to its potentials for real-world applications. Currently most human following systems are equipped with depth sensors to obtain distance information between human and robot, which suffer from the perception requirements and noises. In this paper, we design a wheeled mobile robot system with monocular pan-tilt camera to follow human, which can stay the target in the field of view and keep following simultaneously. The system consists of fast human detector, real-time and accurate visual tracker, and unified controller for mobile robot and pan-tilt camera. In visual tracking algorithm, both Siamese networks and optical flow information are exploited to locate and regress human simultaneously. In order in perform following with a monocular camera, the constraint of human height is introduced to design the controller. In experiments, human following are conducted and analysed in simulations and a real robot platform, which demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the overall system. 

Title: Robust and Precise Vehicle Localization based on Multi-sensor Fusion in Diverse City Scenes
Abstract:  We present a robust and precise localization system that achieves centimeter-level localization accuracy in disparate city scenes. Our system adaptively uses information from complementary sensors such as GNSS, LiDAR, and IMU to achieve high localization accuracy and resilience in challenging scenes, such as urban downtown, highways, and tunnels. Rather than relying only on LiDAR intensity or 3D geometry, we make innovative use of LiDAR intensity and altitude cues to significantly improve localization system accuracy and robustness. Our GNSS RTK module utilizes the help of the multi-sensor fusion framework and achieves a better ambiguity resolution success rate. An error-state Kalman filter is applied to fuse the localization measurements from different sources with novel uncertainty estimation. We validate, in detail, the effectiveness of our approaches, achieving 5-10cm RMS accuracy and outperforming previous state-of-the-art systems. Importantly, our system, while deployed in a large autonomous driving fleet, made our vehicles fully autonomous in crowded city streets despite road construction that occurred from time to time. A dataset including more than 60 km real traffic driving in various urban roads is used to comprehensively test our system. 

Title: Movable-Object-Aware Visual SLAM via Weakly Supervised Semantic Segmentation
Abstract:  Moving objects can greatly jeopardize the performance of a visual simultaneous localization and mapping (vSLAM) system which relies on the static-world assumption. Motion removal have seen successful on solving this problem. Two main streams of solutions are based on either geometry constraints or deep semantic segmentation neural network. The former rely on static majority assumption, and the latter require labor-intensive pixel-wise annotations. In this paper we propose to adopt a novel weakly-supervised semantic segmentation method. The segmentation mask is obtained from a CNN pre-trained with image-level class labels only. Thus, we leverage the power of deep semantic segmentation CNNs, while avoid requiring expensive annotations for training. We integrate our motion removal approach with the ORB-SLAM2 system. Experimental results on the TUM RGB-D and the KITTI stereo datasets demonstrate our superiority over the state-of-the-art. 

Title: Learning Compliance Adaptation in Contact-Rich Manipulation
Abstract:  Compliant robot behavior is crucial for the realization of contact-rich manipulation tasks. In such tasks, it is important to ensure a high stiffness and force tracking accuracy during normal task execution as well as rapid adaptation and complaint behavior to react to abnormal situations and changes. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for learning predictive models of force profiles required for contact-rich tasks. Such models allow detecting unexpected situations and facilitates better adaptive control. The approach combines an anomaly detection based on Bidirectional Gated Recurrent Units (Bi-GRU) and an adaptive force/impedance controller. We evaluated the approach in simulated and real world experiments on a humanoid robot.The results show that the approach allow simultaneous high tracking accuracy of desired motions and force profile as well as the adaptation to force perturbations due to physical human interaction. 

Title: SLOAM: Semantic Lidar Odometry and Mapping for Forest Inventory
Abstract:  This paper describes an end-to-end pipeline for tree diameter estimation based on semantic segmentation and lidar odometry and mapping. Accurate mapping of this type of environment is challenging since the ground and the trees are surrounded by leaves, thorns and vines, and the sensor typically experiences extreme motion. We propose a semantic feature based pose optimization that simultaneously refines the tree models while estimating the robot pose. The pipeline utilizes a custom virtual reality tool for labeling 3D scans that is used to train a semantic segmentation network. The masked point cloud is used to compute a trellis graph that identifies individual instances and extracts relevant features that are used by the SLAM module. We show that traditional lidar and image based methods fail in the forest environment on both Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) and hand-carry systems, while our method is more robust, scalable, and automatically generates tree diameter estimations. 

Title: Learning to Play by Imitating Humans
Abstract:  Acquiring multiple skills has commonly involved collecting a large number of expert demonstrations per task or engineering custom reward functions. Recently it has been shown that it is possible to acquire a diverse set of skills by self-supervising control on top of human teleoperated play data. Play is rich in state space coverage and a policy trained on this data can generalize to specific tasks at test time outperforming policies trained on individual expert task demonstrations. In this work, we explore the question of whether robots can learn to play to autonomously generate play data that can ultimately enhance performance. By training a behavioral cloning policy on a relatively small quantity of human play, we autonomously generate a large quantity of cloned play data that can be used as additional training. We demonstrate that a general purpose goal-conditioned policy trained on this augmented dataset substantially outperforms one trained only with the original human data on 18 difficult user-specified manipulation tasks in a simulated robotic tabletop environment. A video example of a robot imitating human play can be seen here: https://learning-to-play.github.io/videos/undirected_play1.mp4 

Title: Addressing the non-functional requirements of computer vision systems: A case study
Abstract:  Computer vision plays a major role in the robotics industry, where vision data is frequently used for navigation and high-level decision making. Although there is significant research in algorithms and functional requirements, there is a comparative lack of emphasis on how best to map these abstract concepts onto an appropriate software architecture. In this study, we distinguish between the functional and non-functional requirements of a computer vision system. Using a RoboCup humanoid robot system as a case study, we propose and develop a software architecture that fulfills the latter criteria. The modifiability of the proposed architecture is demonstrated by detailing a number of feature detection algorithms and emphasizing which aspects of the underlying framework were modified to support their integration. To demonstrate portability, we port our vision system (designed for an application-specific DARwIn-OP humanoid robot) to a general-purpose, Raspberry Pi computer. We evaluate performance on both platforms and compare them to a vision system optimised for functional requirements only. The architecture and implementation presented in this study provide a highly generalisable framework for computer vision system design that is of particular benefit in research and development, competition and other environments in which rapid system evolution is necessary. 

Title: Sim-to-Real via Sim-to-Sim: Data-efficient Robotic Grasping via Randomized-to-Canonical Adaptation Networks
Abstract:  Real world data, especially in the domain of robotics, is notoriously costly to collect. One way to circumvent this can be to leverage the power of simulation to produce large amounts of labelled data. However, training models on simulated images does not readily transfer to real-world ones. Using domain adaptation methods to cross this "reality gap" requires a large amount of unlabelled real-world data, whilst domain randomization alone can waste modeling power. In this paper, we present Randomized-to-Canonical Adaptation Networks (RCANs), a novel approach to crossing the visual reality gap that uses no real-world data. Our method learns to translate randomized rendered images into their equivalent non-randomized, canonical versions. This in turn allows for real images to also be translated into canonical sim images. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this sim-to-real approach by training a vision-based closed-loop grasping reinforcement learning agent in simulation, and then transferring it to the real world to attain 70% zero-shot grasp success on unseen objects, a result that almost doubles the success of learning the same task directly on domain randomization alone. Additionally, by joint finetuning in the real-world with only 5,000 real-world grasps, our method achieves 91%, attaining comparable performance to a state-of-the-art system trained with 580,000 real-world grasps, resulting in a reduction of real-world data by more than 99%. 

Title: Predictive Modeling of Periodic Behavior for Human-Robot Symbiotic Walking
Abstract:  We propose in this paper Periodic Interaction Primitives - a probabilistic framework that can be used to learn compact models of periodic behavior. Our approach extends existing formulations of Interaction Primitives to periodic movement regimes, i.e., walking. We show that this model is particularly well-suited for learning data-driven, customized models of human walking, which can then be used for generating predictions over future states or for inferring latent, biomechanical variables. We also demonstrate how the same framework can be used to learn controllers for a robotic prosthesis using an imitation learning approach. Results in experiments with human participants indicate that Periodic Interaction Primitives efficiently generate predictions and ankle angle control signals for a robotic prosthetic ankle, with MAE of 2.21 degrees in 0.0008s per inference. Performance degrades gracefully in the presence of noise or sensor fall outs. Compared to alternatives, this algorithm functions 20 times faster and performed 4.5 times more accurately on test subjects. 

Title: Generalizing Skills with Semi-Supervised Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning (RL) can acquire complex behaviors from low-level inputs, such as images. However, real-world applications of such methods require generalizing to the vast variability of the real world. Deep networks are known to achieve remarkable generalization when provided with massive amounts of labeled data, but can we provide this breadth of experience to an RL agent, such as a robot? The robot might continuously learn as it explores the world around it, even while deployed. However, this learning requires access to a reward function, which is often hard to measure in real-world domains, where the reward could depend on, for example, unknown positions of objects or the emotional state of the user. Conversely, it is often quite practical to provide the agent with reward functions in a limited set of situations, such as when a human supervisor is present or in a controlled setting. Can we make use of this limited supervision, and still benefit from the breadth of experience an agent might collect on its own? In this paper, we formalize this problem as semisupervised reinforcement learning, where the reward function can only be evaluated in a set of "labeled" MDPs, and the agent must generalize its behavior to the wide range of states it might encounter in a set of "unlabeled" MDPs, by using experience from both settings. Our proposed method infers the task objective in the unlabeled MDPs through an algorithm that resembles inverse RL, using the agent's own prior experience in the labeled MDPs as a kind of demonstration of optimal behavior. We evaluate our method on challenging tasks that require control directly from images, and show that our approach can improve the generalization of a learned deep neural network policy by using experience for which no reward function is available. We also show that our method outperforms direct supervised learning of the reward. 

Title: Real-Time and Continuous Hand Gesture Spotting: an Approach Based on Artificial Neural Networks
Abstract:  New and more natural human-robot interfaces are of crucial interest to the evolution of robotics. This paper addresses continuous and real-time hand gesture spotting, i.e., gesture segmentation plus gesture recognition. Gesture patterns are recognized by using artificial neural networks (ANNs) specifically adapted to the process of controlling an industrial robot. Since in continuous gesture recognition the communicative gestures appear intermittently with the noncommunicative, we are proposing a new architecture with two ANNs in series to recognize both kinds of gesture. A data glove is used as interface technology. Experimental results demonstrated that the proposed solution presents high recognition rates (over 99% for a library of ten gestures and over 96% for a library of thirty gestures), low training and learning time and a good capacity to generalize from particular situations. 

Title: An Online Learning Approach to Model Predictive Control
Abstract:  Model predictive control (MPC) is a powerful technique for solving dynamic control tasks. In this paper, we show that there exists a close connection between MPC and online learning, an abstract theoretical framework for analyzing online decision making in the optimization literature. This new perspective provides a foundation for leveraging powerful online learning algorithms to design MPC algorithms. Specifically, we propose a new algorithm based on dynamic mirror descent (DMD), an online learning algorithm that is designed for non-stationary setups. Our algorithm, Dynamic Mirror Descent Model Predictive Control (DMD-MPC), represents a general family of MPC algorithms that includes many existing techniques as special instances. DMD-MPC also provides a fresh perspective on previous heuristics used in MPC and suggests a principled way to design new MPC algorithms. In the experimental section of this paper, we demonstrate the flexibility of DMD-MPC, presenting a set of new MPC algorithms on a simple simulated cartpole and a simulated and real-world aggressive driving task. Videos of the real-world experiments can be found at https://youtu.be/vZST3v0_S9w and https://youtu.be/MhuqiHo2t98. 

Title: Research on Autonomous Maneuvering Decision of UCAV based on Approximate Dynamic Programming
Abstract:  Unmanned aircraft systems can perform some more dangerous and difficult missions than manned aircraft systems. In some highly complicated and changeable tasks, such as air combat, the maneuvering decision mechanism is required to sense the combat situation accurately and make the optimal strategy in real-time. This paper presents a formulation of a 3-D one-on-one air combat maneuvering problem and an approximate dynamic programming approach for computing an optimal policy on autonomous maneuvering decision making. The aircraft learns combat strategies in a Reinforcement Leaning method, while sensing the environment, taking available maneuvering actions and getting feedback reward signals. To solve the problem of dimensional explosion in the air combat, the proposed method is implemented through feature selection, trajectory sampling, function approximation and Bellman backup operation in the air combat simulation environment. This approximate dynamic programming approach provides a fast response to a rapidly changing tactical situation, learns in long-term planning, without any explicitly coded air combat rule base. 

Title: Data-efficient Hindsight Off-policy Option Learning
Abstract:  Solutions to most complex tasks can be decomposed into simpler, intermediate skills, reusable across wider ranges of problems. We follow this concept and introduce Hindsight Off-policy Options (HO2), a new algorithm for efficient and robust option learning. The algorithm relies on critic-weighted maximum likelihood estimation and an efficient dynamic programming inference procedure over off-policy trajectories. We can backpropagate through the inference procedure through time and the policy components for every time-step, making it possible to train all component's parameters off-policy, independently of the data-generating behavior policy. Experimentally, we demonstrate that HO2 outperforms competitive baselines and solves demanding robot stacking and ball-in-cup tasks from raw pixel inputs in simulation. We further compare autoregressive option policies with simple mixture policies, providing insights into the relative impact of two types of abstractions common in the options framework: action abstraction and temporal abstraction. Finally, we illustrate challenges caused by stale data in off-policy options learning and provide effective solutions. 

Title: A Lobster-inspired Robotic Glove for Hand Rehabilitation
Abstract:  This paper presents preliminary results of the design, development, and evaluation of a hand rehabilitation glove fabricated using lobster-inspired hybrid design with rigid and soft components for actuation. Inspired by the bending abdomen of lobsters, hybrid actuators are built with serially jointed rigid shells actuated by pressurized soft chambers inside to generate bending motions. Such bio-inspiration absorbs features from the classical rigid-bodied robotics with precisely-defined motion generation, as well as the emerging soft robotics with light-weight, physically safe, and adaptive actuation. The fabrication procedure is described, followed by experiments to mechanically characterize these actuators. Finally, an open-palm glove design integrated with these hybrid actuators is presented for a qualitative case study. A hand rehabilitation system is developed by learning patterns of the sEMG signals from the user's forearm to train the assistive glove for hand rehabilitation exercises. 

Title: Multi-camera Torso Pose Estimation using Graph Neural Networks
Abstract:  Estimating the location and orientation of humans is an essential skill for service and assistive robots. To achieve a reliable estimation in a wide area such as an apartment, multiple RGBD cameras are frequently used. Firstly, these setups are relatively expensive. Secondly, they seldom perform an effective data fusion using the multiple camera sources at an early stage of the processing pipeline. Occlusions and partial views make this second point very relevant in these scenarios. The proposal presented in this paper makes use of graph neural networks to merge the information acquired from multiple camera sources, achieving a mean absolute error below 125 mm for the location and 10 degrees for the orientation using low-resolution RGB images. The experiments, conducted in an apartment with three cameras, benchmarked two different graph neural network implementations and a third architecture based on fully connected layers. The software used has been released as open-source in a public repository (https://github.com/vangiel/WheresTheFellow). 

Title: Optical Navigation in Unstructured Dynamic Railroad Environments
Abstract:  We present an approach for optical navigation in unstructured, dynamic railroad environments. We propose a way how to cope with the estimation of the train motion from sole observations of the planar track bed. The occasional significant occlusions during the operation of the train limit the available observation to this difficult to track, repetitive area. This approach is a step towards replacement of the expensive train management infrastructure with local intelligence on the train for SmartRail 4.0. We derive our approach for robust estimation of translation and rotation in this difficult environments and provide experimental validation of the approach on real rail scenarios. 

Title: Human-Robot Collaboration via Deep Reinforcement Learning of Real-World Interactions
Abstract:  We present a robotic setup for real-world testing and evaluation of human-robot and human-human collaborative learning. Leveraging the sample-efficiency of the Soft Actor-Critic algorithm, we have implemented a robotic platform able to learn a non-trivial collaborative task with a human partner, without pre-training in simulation, and using only 30 minutes of real-world interactions. This enables us to study Human-Robot and Human-Human collaborative learning through real-world interactions. We present preliminary results, showing that state-of-the-art deep learning methods can take human-robot collaborative learning a step closer to that of humans interacting with each other. 

Title: Semantic Segmentation from Limited Training Data
Abstract:  We present our approach for robotic perception in cluttered scenes that led to winning the recent Amazon Robotics Challenge (ARC) 2017. Next to small objects with shiny and transparent surfaces, the biggest challenge of the 2017 competition was the introduction of unseen categories. In contrast to traditional approaches which require large collections of annotated data and many hours of training, the task here was to obtain a robust perception pipeline with only few minutes of data acquisition and training time. To that end, we present two strategies that we explored. One is a deep metric learning approach that works in three separate steps: semantic-agnostic boundary detection, patch classification and pixel-wise voting. The other is a fully-supervised semantic segmentation approach with efficient dataset collection. We conduct an extensive analysis of the two methods on our ARC 2017 dataset. Interestingly, only few examples of each class are sufficient to fine-tune even very deep convolutional neural networks for this specific task. 

Title: Robust Attentional Aggregation of Deep Feature Sets for Multi-view 3D Reconstruction
Abstract:  We study the problem of recovering an underlying 3D shape from a set of images. Existing learning based approaches usually resort to recurrent neural nets, e.g., GRU, or intuitive pooling operations, e.g., max/mean poolings, to fuse multiple deep features encoded from input images. However, GRU based approaches are unable to consistently estimate 3D shapes given different permutations of the same set of input images as the recurrent unit is permutation variant. It is also unlikely to refine the 3D shape given more images due to the long-term memory loss of GRU. Commonly used pooling approaches are limited to capturing partial information, e.g., max/mean values, ignoring other valuable features. In this paper, we present a new feed-forward neural module, named AttSets, together with a dedicated training algorithm, named FASet, to attentively aggregate an arbitrarily sized deep feature set for multi-view 3D reconstruction. The AttSets module is permutation invariant, computationally efficient and flexible to implement, while the FASet algorithm enables the AttSets based network to be remarkably robust and generalize to an arbitrary number of input images. We thoroughly evaluate FASet and the properties of AttSets on multiple large public datasets. Extensive experiments show that AttSets together with FASet algorithm significantly outperforms existing aggregation approaches. 

Title: Learning Actionable Representations from Visual Observations
Abstract:  In this work we explore a new approach for robots to teach themselves about the world simply by observing it. In particular we investigate the effectiveness of learning task-agnostic representations for continuous control tasks. We extend Time-Contrastive Networks (TCN) that learn from visual observations by embedding multiple frames jointly in the embedding space as opposed to a single frame. We show that by doing so, we are now able to encode both position and velocity attributes significantly more accurately. We test the usefulness of this self-supervised approach in a reinforcement learning setting. We show that the representations learned by agents observing themselves take random actions, or other agents perform tasks successfully, can enable the learning of continuous control policies using algorithms like Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) using only the learned embeddings as input. We also demonstrate significant improvements on the real-world Pouring dataset with a relative error reduction of 39.4% for motion attributes and 11.1% for static attributes compared to the single-frame baseline. Video results are available at https://sites.google.com/view/actionablerepresentations . 

Title: Guided Uncertainty-Aware Policy Optimization: Combining Learning and Model-Based Strategies for Sample-Efficient Policy Learning
Abstract:  Traditional robotic approaches rely on an accurate model of the environment, a detailed description of how to perform the task, and a robust perception system to keep track of the current state. On the other hand, reinforcement learning approaches can operate directly from raw sensory inputs with only a reward signal to describe the task, but are extremely sample-inefficient and brittle. In this work, we combine the strengths of model-based methods with the flexibility of learning-based methods to obtain a general method that is able to overcome inaccuracies in the robotics perception/actuation pipeline, while requiring minimal interactions with the environment. This is achieved by leveraging uncertainty estimates to divide the space in regions where the given model-based policy is reliable, and regions where it may have flaws or not be well defined. In these uncertain regions, we show that a locally learned-policy can be used directly with raw sensory inputs. We test our algorithm, Guided Uncertainty-Aware Policy Optimization (GUAPO), on a real-world robot performing peg insertion. Videos are available at https://sites.google.com/view/guapo-rl 

Title: Global visual localization in LiDAR-maps through shared 2D-3D embedding space
Abstract:  Global localization is an important and widely studied problem for many robotic applications. Place recognition approaches can be exploited to solve this task, e.g., in the autonomous driving field. While most vision-based approaches match an image w.r.t. an image database, global visual localization within LiDAR-maps remains fairly unexplored, even though the path toward high definition 3D maps, produced mainly from LiDARs, is clear. In this work we leverage Deep Neural Network (DNN) approaches to create a shared embedding space between images and LiDAR-maps, allowing for image to 3D-LiDAR place recognition. We trained a 2D and a 3D DNN that create embeddings, respectively from images and from point clouds, that are close to each other whether they refer to the same place. An extensive experimental activity is presented to assess the effectiveness of the approach w.r.t. different learning paradigms, network architectures, and loss functions. All the evaluations have been performed using the Oxford Robotcar Dataset, which encompasses a wide range of weather and light conditions. 

Title: Deep Learning based Segmentation of Fish in Noisy Forward Looking MBES Images
Abstract:  In this work, we investigate a Deep Learning (DL) approach to fish segmentation in a small dataset of noisy low-resolution images generated by a forward-looking multibeam echosounder (MBES). We build on recent advances in DL and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) for semantic segmentation and demonstrate an end-to-end approach for a fish/non-fish probability prediction for all range-azimuth positions projected by an imaging sonar. We use self-collected datasets from the Danish Sound and the Faroe Islands to train and test our model and present techniques to obtain satisfying performance and generalization even with a low-volume dataset. We show that our model proves the desired performance and has learned to harness the importance of semantic context and take this into account to separate noise and non-targets from real targets. Furthermore, we present techniques to deploy models on low-cost embedded platforms to obtain higher performance fit for edge environments - where compute and power are restricted by size/cost - for testing and prototyping. 

Title: Speeding-up Object Detection Training for Robotics with FALKON
Abstract:  Latest deep learning methods for object detection provide remarkable performance, but have limits when used in robotic applications. One of the most relevant issues is the long training time, which is due to the large size and imbalance of the associated training sets, characterized by few positive and a large number of negative examples (i.e. background). Proposed approaches are based on end-to-end learning by back-propagation [22] or kernel methods trained with Hard Negatives Mining on top of deep features [8]. These solutions are effective, but prohibitively slow for on-line applications. In this paper we propose a novel pipeline for object detection that overcomes this problem and provides comparable performance, with a 60x training speedup. Our pipeline combines (i) the Region Proposal Network and the deep feature extractor from [22] to efficiently select candidate RoIs and encode them into powerful representations, with (ii) the FALKON [23] algorithm, a novel kernel-based method that allows fast training on large scale problems (millions of points). We address the size and imbalance of training data by exploiting the stochastic subsampling intrinsic into the method and a novel, fast, bootstrapping approach. We assess the effectiveness of the approach on a standard Computer Vision dataset (PASCAL VOC 2007 [5]) and demonstrate its applicability to a real robotic scenario with the iCubWorld Transformations [18] dataset. 

Title: Incremental Learning for Robot Perception through HRI
Abstract:  Scene understanding and object recognition is a difficult to achieve yet crucial skill for robots. Recently, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), have shown success in this task. However, there is still a gap between their performance on image datasets and real-world robotics scenarios. We present a novel paradigm for incrementally improving a robot's visual perception through active human interaction. In this paradigm, the user introduces novel objects to the robot by means of pointing and voice commands. Given this information, the robot visually explores the object and adds images from it to re-train the perception module. Our base perception module is based on recent development in object detection and recognition using deep learning. Our method leverages state of the art CNNs from off-line batch learning, human guidance, robot exploration and incremental on-line learning. 

Title: Teach Biped Robots to Walk via Gait Principles and Reinforcement Learning with Adversarial Critics
Abstract:  Controlling a biped robot to walk stably is a challenging task considering its nonlinearity and hybrid dynamics. Reinforcement learning can address these issues by directly mapping the observed states to optimal actions that maximize the cumulative reward. However, the local minima caused by unsuitable rewards and the overestimation of the cumulative reward impede the maximization of the cumulative reward. To increase the cumulative reward, this paper designs a gait reward based on walking principles, which compensates the local minima for unnatural motions. Besides, an Adversarial Twin Delayed Deep Deterministic (ATD3) policy gradient algorithm with a recurrent neural network (RNN) is proposed to further boost the cumulative reward by mitigating the overestimation of the cumulative reward. Experimental results in the Roboschool Walker2d and Webots Atlas simulators indicate that the test rewards increase by 23.50% and 9.63% after adding the gait reward. The test rewards further increase by 15.96% and 12.68% after using the ATD3_RNN, and the reason may be that the ATD3_RNN decreases the error of estimating cumulative reward from 19.86% to 3.35%. Besides, the cosine kinetic similarity between the human and the biped robot trained by the gait reward and ATD3_RNN increases by over 69.23%. Consequently, the designed gait reward and ATD3_RNN boost the cumulative reward and teach biped robots to walk better. 

Title: Automatic Interpretation of Unordered Point Cloud Data for UAV Navigation in Construction
Abstract:  The objective of this work is to develop a data processing system that can automatically generate waypoints for navigation of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) to inspect surfaces of structures like buildings and bridges. The input includes data recorded by two 2D laser scanners, orthogonally mounted on the UAV, and an inertial measurement unit (IMU). To achieve the goal, algorithms are developed to process the data collected. They are separated into three major groups: (i) the data registration and filtering to generate a 3D model of the structure and control the density of point clouds for data completeness enhancement; (ii) the surface and obstacle detection to assist the UAV in monitoring tasks; and (iii) the waypoint generation to set the flight path. Experiments on different data sets show that the developed system is able to reconstruct a 3D point cloud of the structure, extract its surfaces and objects, and generate waypoints for the UAV to accomplish inspection tasks. 

Title: Fast Adaptation with Meta-Reinforcement Learning for Trust Modelling in Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract:  In socially assistive robotics, an important research area is the development of adaptation techniques and their effect on human-robot interaction. We present a meta-learning based policy gradient method for addressing the problem of adaptation in human-robot interaction and also investigate its role as a mechanism for trust modelling. By building an escape room scenario in mixed reality with a robot, we test our hypothesis that bi-directional trust can be influenced by different adaptation algorithms. We found that our proposed model increased the perceived trustworthiness of the robot and influenced the dynamics of gaining human's trust. Additionally, participants evaluated that the robot perceived them as more trustworthy during the interactions with the meta-learning based adaptation compared to the previously studied statistical adaptation model. 

Title: Detecting Features of Tools, Objects, and Actions from Effects in a Robot using Deep Learning
Abstract:  We propose a tool-use model that can detect the features of tools, target objects, and actions from the provided effects of object manipulation. We construct a model that enables robots to manipulate objects with tools, using infant learning as a concept. To realize this, we train sensory-motor data recorded during a tool-use task performed by a robot with deep learning. Experiments include four factors: (1) tools, (2) objects, (3) actions, and (4) effects, which the model considers simultaneously. For evaluation, the robot generates predicted images and motions given information of the effects of using unknown tools and objects. We confirm that the robot is capable of detecting features of tools, objects, and actions by learning the effects and executing the task. 

Title: I'm sorry to say, but your understanding of image processing fundamentals is absolutely wrong
Abstract:  The ongoing discussion whether modern vision systems have to be viewed as visually-enabled cognitive systems or cognitively-enabled vision systems is groundless, because perceptual and cognitive faculties of vision are separate components of human (and consequently, artificial) information processing system modeling. 

Title: Hallucinating Beyond Observation: Learning to Complete with Partial Observation and Unpaired Prior Knowledge
Abstract:  We propose a novel single-step training strategy that allows convolutional encoder-decoder networks that use skip connections, to complete partially observed data by means of hallucination. This strategy is demonstrated for the task of completing 2-D road layouts as well as 3-D vehicle shapes. As input, it takes data from a partially observed domain, for which no ground truth is available, and data from an unpaired prior knowledge domain and trains the network in an end-to-end manner. Our single-step training strategy is compared against two state-of-the-art baselines, one using a two-step auto-encoder training strategy and one using an adversarial strategy. Our novel strategy achieves an improvement up to +12.2% F-measure on the Cityscapes dataset. The learned network intrinsically generalizes better than the baselines on unseen datasets, which is demonstrated by an improvement up to +23.8% F-measure on the unseen KITTI dataset. Moreover, our approach outperforms the baselines using the same backbone network on the 3-D shape completion benchmark by a margin of 0.006 Hamming distance. 

Title: Modular meta-learning
Abstract:  Many prediction problems, such as those that arise in the context of robotics, have a simplifying underlying structure that, if known, could accelerate learning. In this paper, we present a strategy for learning a set of neural network modules that can be combined in different ways. We train different modular structures on a set of related tasks and generalize to new tasks by composing the learned modules in new ways. By reusing modules to generalize we achieve combinatorial generalization, akin to the "infinite use of finite means" displayed in language. Finally, we show this improves performance in two robotics-related problems. 

Title: 3D Object Reconstruction from a Single Depth View with Adversarial Learning
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a novel 3D-RecGAN approach, which reconstructs the complete 3D structure of a given object from a single arbitrary depth view using generative adversarial networks. Unlike the existing work which typically requires multiple views of the same object or class labels to recover the full 3D geometry, the proposed 3D-RecGAN only takes the voxel grid representation of a depth view of the object as input, and is able to generate the complete 3D occupancy grid by filling in the occluded/missing regions. The key idea is to combine the generative capabilities of autoencoders and the conditional Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) framework, to infer accurate and fine-grained 3D structures of objects in high-dimensional voxel space. Extensive experiments on large synthetic datasets show that the proposed 3D-RecGAN significantly outperforms the state of the art in single view 3D object reconstruction, and is able to reconstruct unseen types of objects. Our code and data are available at: https://github.com/Yang7879/3D-RecGAN. 

Title: Residual Reactive Navigation: Combining Classical and Learned Navigation Strategies For Deployment in Unknown Environments
Abstract:  In this work we focus on improving the efficiency and generalisation of learned navigation strategies when transferred from its training environment to previously unseen ones. We present an extension of the residual reinforcement learning framework from the robotic manipulation literature and adapt it to the vast and unstructured environments that mobile robots can operate in. The concept is based on learning a residual control effect to add to a typical sub-optimal classical controller in order to close the performance gap, whilst guiding the exploration process during training for improved data efficiency. We exploit this tight coupling and propose a novel deployment strategy, switching Residual Reactive Navigation (sRRN), which yields efficient trajectories whilst probabilistically switching to a classical controller in cases of high policy uncertainty. Our approach achieves improved performance over end-to-end alternatives and can be incorporated as part of a complete navigation stack for cluttered indoor navigation tasks in the real world. The code and training environment for this project is made publicly available at https://sites.google.com/view/srrn/home. 

Title: Deep Reinforcement learning for real autonomous mobile robot navigation in indoor environments
Abstract:  Deep Reinforcement Learning has been successfully applied in various computer games [8]. However, it is still rarely used in real-world applications, especially for the navigation and continuous control of real mobile robots [13]. Previous approaches lack safety and robustness and/or need a structured environment. In this paper we present our proof of concept for autonomous self-learning robot navigation in an unknown environment for a real robot without a map or planner. The input for the robot is only the fused data from a 2D laser scanner and a RGB-D camera as well as the orientation to the goal. The map of the environment is unknown. The output actions of an Asynchronous Advantage Actor-Critic network (GA3C) are the linear and angular velocities for the robot. The navigator/controller network is pretrained in a high-speed, parallel, and self-implemented simulation environment to speed up the learning process and then deployed to the real robot. To avoid overfitting, we train relatively small networks, and we add random Gaussian noise to the input laser data. The sensor data fusion with the RGB-D camera allows the robot to navigate in real environments with real 3D obstacle avoidance and without the need to fit the environment to the sensory capabilities of the robot. To further increase the robustness, we train on environments of varying difficulties and run 32 training instances simultaneously. Video: supplementary File / YouTube, Code: GitHub 

Title: Falsification-Based Robust Adversarial Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning (RL) has achieved tremendous progress in solving various sequential decision-making problems, e.g., control tasks in robotics. However, RL methods often fail to generalize to safety-critical scenarios since policies are overfitted to training environments. Previously, robust adversarial reinforcement learning (RARL) was proposed to train an adversarial network that applies disturbances to a system, which improves robustness in test scenarios. A drawback of neural-network-based adversaries is that integrating system requirements without handcrafting sophisticated reward signals is difficult. Safety falsification methods allow one to find a set of initial conditions as well as an input sequence, such that the system violates a given property formulated in temporal logic. In this paper, we propose falsification-based RARL (FRARL), the first generic framework for integrating temporal-logic falsification in adversarial learning to improve policy robustness. With falsification method, we do not need to construct an extra reward function for the adversary. We evaluate our approach on a braking assistance system and an adaptive cruise control system of autonomous vehicles. Experiments show that policies trained with a falsification-based adversary generalize better and show less violation of the safety specification in test scenarios than the ones trained without an adversary or with an adversarial network. 

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning has steadily improved and outperform human in lots of traditional games since the resurgence of deep neural network. However, these success is not easy to be copied to autonomous driving because the state spaces in real world are extreme complex and action spaces are continuous and fine control is required. Moreover, the autonomous driving vehicles must also keep functional safety under the complex environments. To deal with these challenges, we first adopt the deep deterministic policy gradient (DDPG) algorithm, which has the capacity to handle complex state and action spaces in continuous domain. We then choose The Open Racing Car Simulator (TORCS) as our environment to avoid physical damage. Meanwhile, we select a set of appropriate sensor information from TORCS and design our own rewarder. In order to fit DDPG algorithm to TORCS, we design our network architecture for both actor and critic inside DDPG paradigm. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our model, We evaluate on different modes in TORCS and show both quantitative and qualitative results. 

Title: Variational Autoencoder Trajectory Primitives with Continuous and Discrete Latent Codes
Abstract:  Imitation learning is an intuitive approach for teaching motion to robotic systems. Although previous studies have proposed various methods to model demonstrated movement primitives, one of the limitations of existing methods is that it is not trivial to modify their planned trajectory once the model is learned. The trajectory of a robotic manipulator is often high-dimensional, and it is not easy to tune the shape of the planned trajectory in an intuitive manner. We address this problem by learning the latent space of the robot trajectory. If the latent variable of the trajectories can be learned, it can be used to tune the trajectory in an intuitive manner even when the user is an expert. We propose a framework for modeling demonstrated trajectories with a neural network that learns the low-dimensional latent space. Our neural network structure is built on the variational autoencoder (VAE) with discrete and continuous latent variables. We extend the structure of the existing VAE to obtain the decoder that is conditioned on the goal position of the trajectory for generalization to different goal positions. To cope with requirement of the massive training data, we use a trajectory augmentation technique inspired by the data augmentation commonly used in the computer vision community. In the proposed framework, the latent variables that encodes the multiple types of trajectories are learned in an unsupervised manner. The learned decoder can be used as a motion planner in which the user can specify the goal position and the trajectory types by setting the latent variables. The experimental results show that our neural network can be trained using a limited number of demonstrated trajectories and that the interpretable latent representations can be learned. 

Title: A Library for Constraint Consistent Learning
Abstract:  This paper introduces the first, open source software library for Constraint Consistent Learning (CCL). It implements a family of data-driven methods that are capable of (i) learning state-independent and -dependent constraints, (ii) decomposing the behaviour of redundant systems into task- and null-space parts, and (iii) uncovering the underlying null space control policy. It is a tool to analyse and decompose many everyday tasks, such as wiping, reaching and drawing. The library also includes several tutorials that demonstrate its use with both simulated and real world data in a systematic way. This paper documents the implementation of the library, tutorials and associated helper methods. The software is made freely available to the community, to enable code reuse and allow users to gain in-depth experience in statistical learning in this area. 

Title: The State of Lifelong Learning in Service Robots: Current Bottlenecks in Object Perception and Manipulation
Abstract:  Service robots are appearing more and more in our daily life. The development of service robots combines multiple fields of research, from object perception to object manipulation. The state-of-the-art continues to improve to make a proper coupling between object perception and manipulation. This coupling is necessary for service robots not only to perform various tasks in a reasonable amount of time but also to continually adapt to new environments and safely interact with non-expert human users. Nowadays, robots are able to recognize various objects, and quickly plan a collision-free trajectory to grasp a target object in predefined settings. Besides, in most of the cases, there is a reliance on large amounts of training data. Therefore, the knowledge of such robots is fixed after the training phase, and any changes in the environment require complicated, time-consuming, and expensive robot re-programming by human experts. Therefore, these approaches are still too rigid for real-life applications in unstructured environments, where a significant portion of the environment is unknown and cannot be directly sensed or controlled. In such environments, no matter how extensive the training data used for batch learning, a robot will always face new objects. Therefore, apart from batch learning, the robot should be able to continually learn about new object categories and grasp affordances from very few training examples on-site. Moreover, apart from robot self-learning, non-expert users could interactively guide the process of experience acquisition by teaching new concepts, or by correcting insufficient or erroneous concepts. In this way, the robot will constantly learn how to help humans in everyday tasks by gaining more and more experiences without the need for re-programming. 

Title: Learning Real-World Robot Policies by Dreaming
Abstract:  Learning to control robots directly based on images is a primary challenge in robotics. However, many existing reinforcement learning approaches require iteratively obtaining millions of robot samples to learn a policy, which can take significant time. In this paper, we focus on learning a realistic world model capturing the dynamics of scene changes conditioned on robot actions. Our dreaming model can emulate samples equivalent to a sequence of images from the actual environment, technically by learning an action-conditioned future representation/scene regressor. This allows the agent to learn action policies (i.e., visuomotor policies) by interacting with the dreaming model rather than the real-world. We experimentally confirm that our dreaming model enables robot learning of policies that transfer to the real-world. 

Title: Design and Implementation a 8 bits Pipeline Analog to Digital Converter in the Technology 0.6 \mu m CMOS Process
Abstract:  This paper describes a 8 bits, 20 Msamples/s pipeline analog-to-digital converter implemented in 0.6 \mu m CMOS technology with a total power dissipation of 75.47 mW. Circuit techniques used include a precise comparator, operational amplifier and clock management. A switched capacitor is used to sample and multiplying at each stage. Simulation a worst case DNL and INL of 0.75 LSB. The design operate at 5 V dc. The ADC achieves a SNDR of 44.86 dB. keywords : pipeline, switched capacitor, clock management 

Title: Robot Navigation in Unseen Spaces using an Abstract Map
Abstract:  Human navigation in built environments depends on symbolic spatial information which has unrealised potential to enhance robot navigation capabilities. Information sources such as labels, signs, maps, planners, spoken directions, and navigational gestures communicate a wealth of spatial information to the navigators of built environments; a wealth of information that robots typically ignore. We present a robot navigation system that uses the same symbolic spatial information employed by humans to purposefully navigate in unseen built environments with a level of performance comparable to humans. The navigation system uses a novel data structure called the abstract map to imagine malleable spatial models for unseen spaces from spatial symbols. Sensorimotor perceptions from a robot are then employed to provide purposeful navigation to symbolic goal locations in the unseen environment. We show how a dynamic system can be used to create malleable spatial models for the abstract map, and provide an open source implementation to encourage future work in the area of symbolic navigation. Symbolic navigation performance of humans and a robot is evaluated in a real-world built environment. The paper concludes with a qualitative analysis of human navigation strategies, providing further insights into how the symbolic navigation capabilities of robots in unseen built environments can be improved in the future. 

Title: Distributed and Consistent Multi-Image Feature Matching via QuickMatch
Abstract:  In this work we consider the multi-image object matching problem, extend a centralized solution of the problem to a distributed solution, and present an experimental application of the centralized solution. Multi-image feature matching is a keystone of many applications, including simultaneous localization and mapping, homography, object detection, and structure from motion. We first review the QuickMatch algorithm for multi-image feature matching. We then present a scheme for distributing sets of features across computational units (agents) that largely preserves feature match quality and minimizes communication between agents (avoiding, in particular, the need of flooding all data to all agents). Finally, we show how QuickMatch performs on an object matching test with low quality images. The centralized QuickMatch algorithm is compared to other standard matching algorithms, while the Distributed QuickMatch algorithm is compared to the centralized algorithm in terms of preservation of match consistency. The presented experiment shows that QuickMatch matches features across a large number of images and features in larger numbers and more accurately than standard techniques. 

Title: Unsupervised Learning for Physical Interaction through Video Prediction
Abstract:  A core challenge for an agent learning to interact with the world is to predict how its actions affect objects in its environment. Many existing methods for learning the dynamics of physical interactions require labeled object information. However, to scale real-world interaction learning to a variety of scenes and objects, acquiring labeled data becomes increasingly impractical. To learn about physical object motion without labels, we develop an action-conditioned video prediction model that explicitly models pixel motion, by predicting a distribution over pixel motion from previous frames. Because our model explicitly predicts motion, it is partially invariant to object appearance, enabling it to generalize to previously unseen objects. To explore video prediction for real-world interactive agents, we also introduce a dataset of 59,000 robot interactions involving pushing motions, including a test set with novel objects. In this dataset, accurate prediction of videos conditioned on the robot's future actions amounts to learning a "visual imagination" of different futures based on different courses of action. Our experiments show that our proposed method produces more accurate video predictions both quantitatively and qualitatively, when compared to prior methods. 

Title: Complex Robotic Manipulation via Graph-Based Hindsight Goal Generation
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning algorithms such as hindsight experience replay (HER) and hindsight goal generation (HGG) have been able to solve challenging robotic manipulation tasks in multi-goal settings with sparse rewards. HER achieves its training success through hindsight replays of past experience with heuristic goals, but under-performs in challenging tasks in which goals are difficult to explore. HGG enhances HER by selecting intermediate goals that are easy to achieve in the short term and promising to lead to target goals in the long term. This guided exploration makes HGG applicable to tasks in which target goals are far away from the object's initial position. However, HGG is not applicable to manipulation tasks with obstacles because the euclidean metric used for HGG is not an accurate distance metric in such environments. In this paper, we propose graph-based hindsight goal generation (G-HGG), an extension of HGG selecting hindsight goals based on shortest distances in an obstacle-avoiding graph, which is a discrete representation of the environment. We evaluated G-HGG on four challenging manipulation tasks with obstacles, where significant enhancements in both sample efficiency and overall success rate are shown over HGG and HER. Videos can be viewed at https://sites.google.com/view/demos-g-hgg/. 

Title: Mammalian Value Systems
Abstract:  Characterizing human values is a topic deeply interwoven with the sciences, humanities, art, and many other human endeavors. In recent years, a number of thinkers have argued that accelerating trends in computer science, cognitive science, and related disciplines foreshadow the creation of intelligent machines which meet and ultimately surpass the cognitive abilities of human beings, thereby entangling an understanding of human values with future technological development. Contemporary research accomplishments suggest sophisticated AI systems becoming widespread and responsible for managing many aspects of the modern world, from preemptively planning users' travel schedules and logistics, to fully autonomous vehicles, to domestic robots assisting in daily living. The extrapolation of these trends has been most forcefully described in the context of a hypothetical "intelligence explosion," in which the capabilities of an intelligent software agent would rapidly increase due to the presence of feedback loops unavailable to biological organisms. The possibility of superintelligent agents, or simply the widespread deployment of sophisticated, autonomous AI systems, highlights an important theoretical problem: the need to separate the cognitive and rational capacities of an agent from the fundamental goal structure, or value system, which constrains and guides the agent's actions. The "value alignment problem" is to specify a goal structure for autonomous agents compatible with human values. In this brief article, we suggest that recent ideas from affective neuroscience and related disciplines aimed at characterizing neurological and behavioral universals in the mammalian class provide important conceptual foundations relevant to describing human values. We argue that the notion of "mammalian value systems" points to a potential avenue for fundamental research in AI safety and AI ethics. 

Title: Multi-Modal Trip Hazard Affordance Detection On Construction Sites
Abstract:  Trip hazards are a significant contributor to accidents on construction and manufacturing sites, where over a third of Australian workplace injuries occur [1]. Current safety inspections are labour intensive and limited by human fallibility,making automation of trip hazard detection appealing from both a safety and economic perspective. Trip hazards present an interesting challenge to modern learning techniques because they are defined as much by affordance as by object type; for example wires on a table are not a trip hazard, but can be if lying on the ground. To address these challenges, we conduct a comprehensive investigation into the performance characteristics of 11 different colour and depth fusion approaches, including 4 fusion and one non fusion approach; using colour and two types of depth images. Trained and tested on over 600 labelled trip hazards over 4 floors and 2000m$\mathrm{^{2}}$ in an active construction site,this approach was able to differentiate between identical objects in different physical configurations (see Figure 1). Outperforming a colour-only detector, our multi-modal trip detector fuses colour and depth information to achieve a 4% absolute improvement in F1-score. These investigative results and the extensive publicly available dataset moves us one step closer to assistive or fully automated safety inspection systems on construction sites. 

Title: Pedestrian Models for Autonomous Driving Part II: High-Level Models of Human Behavior
Abstract:  Autonomous vehicles (AVs) must share space with pedestrians, both in carriageway cases such as cars at pedestrian crossings and off-carriageway cases such as delivery vehicles navigating through crowds on pedestrianized high-streets. Unlike static obstacles, pedestrians are active agents with complex, interactive motions. Planning AV actions in the presence of pedestrians thus requires modelling of their probable future behaviour as well as detecting and tracking them. This narrative review article is Part II of a pair, together surveying the current technology stack involved in this process, organising recent research into a hierarchical taxonomy ranging from low-level image detection to high-level psychological models, from the perspective of an AV designer. This self-contained Part II covers the higher levels of this stack, consisting of models of pedestrian behaviour, from prediction of individual pedestrians' likely destinations and paths, to game-theoretic models of interactions between pedestrians and autonomous vehicles. This survey clearly shows that, although there are good models for optimal walking behaviour, high-level psychological and social modelling of pedestrian behaviour still remains an open research question that requires many conceptual issues to be clarified. Early work has been done on descriptive and qualitative models of behaviour, but much work is still needed to translate them into quantitative algorithms for practical AV control. 

Title: Bayesian Local Sampling-based Planning
Abstract:  Sampling-based planning is the predominant paradigm for motion planning in robotics. Most sampling-based planners use a global random sampling scheme to guarantee probabilistic completeness. However, most schemes are often inefficient as the samples drawn from the global proposal distribution, and do not exploit relevant local structures. Local sampling-based motion planners, on the other hand, take sequential decisions of random walks to samples valid trajectories in configuration space. However, current approaches do not adapt their strategies according to the success and failures of past samples. In this work, we introduce a local sampling-based motion planner with a Bayesian learning scheme for modelling an adaptive sampling proposal distribution. The proposal distribution is sequentially updated based on previous samples, consequently shaping it according to local obstacles and constraints in the configuration space. Thus, through learning from past observed outcomes, we maximise the likelihood of sampling in regions that have a higher probability to form trajectories within narrow passages. We provide the formulation of a sample-efficient distribution, along with theoretical foundation of sequentially updating this distribution. We demonstrate experimentally that by using a Bayesian proposal distribution, a solution is found faster, requiring fewer samples, and without any noticeable performance overhead. 

Title: Revisiting visual-inertial structure from motion for odometry and SLAM initialization
Abstract:  In this paper, an efficient closed-form solution for the state initialization in visual-inertial odometry (VIO) and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) is presented. Unlike the state-of-the-art, we do not derive linear equations from triangulating pairs of point observations. Instead, we build on a direct triangulation of the unknown $3D$ point paired with each of its observations. We show and validate the high impact of such a simple difference. The resulting linear system has a simpler structure and the solution through analytic elimination only requires solving a $6\times 6$ linear system (or $9 \times 9$ when accelerometer bias is included). In addition, all the observations of every scene point are jointly related, thereby leading to a less biased and more robust solution. The proposed formulation attains up to $50$ percent decreased velocity and point reconstruction error compared to the standard closed-form solver. Apart from the inherent efficiency, fewer iterations are needed by any further non-linear refinement thanks to better parameter initialization. In this context, we provide the analytic Jacobians for a non-linear optimizer that optionally refines the initial parameters. The superior performance of the proposed solver is established by quantitative comparisons with the state-of-the-art solver. 

Title: Rapidly Adaptable Legged Robots via Evolutionary Meta-Learning
Abstract:  Learning adaptable policies is crucial for robots to operate autonomously in our complex and quickly changing world. In this work, we present a new meta-learning method that allows robots to quickly adapt to changes in dynamics. In contrast to gradient-based meta-learning algorithms that rely on second-order gradient estimation, we introduce a more noise-tolerant Batch Hill-Climbing adaptation operator and combine it with meta-learning based on evolutionary strategies. Our method significantly improves adaptation to changes in dynamics in high noise settings, which are common in robotics applications. We validate our approach on a quadruped robot that learns to walk while subject to changes in dynamics. We observe that our method significantly outperforms prior gradient-based approaches, enabling the robot to adapt its policy to changes based on less than 3 minutes of real data. 

Title: Supervision via Competition: Robot Adversaries for Learning Tasks
Abstract:  There has been a recent paradigm shift in robotics to data-driven learning for planning and control. Due to large number of experiences required for training, most of these approaches use a self-supervised paradigm: using sensors to measure success/failure. However, in most cases, these sensors provide weak supervision at best. In this work, we propose an adversarial learning framework that pits an adversary against the robot learning the task. In an effort to defeat the adversary, the original robot learns to perform the task with more robustness leading to overall improved performance. We show that this adversarial framework forces the the robot to learn a better grasping model in order to overcome the adversary. By grasping 82% of presented novel objects compared to 68% without an adversary, we demonstrate the utility of creating adversaries. We also demonstrate via experiments that having robots in adversarial setting might be a better learning strategy as compared to having collaborative multiple robots. 

Title: Reinforcement Learning for Pivoting Task
Abstract:  In this work we propose an approach to learn a robust policy for solving the pivoting task. Recently, several model-free continuous control algorithms were shown to learn successful policies without prior knowledge of the dynamics of the task. However, obtaining successful policies required thousands to millions of training episodes, limiting the applicability of these approaches to real hardware. We developed a training procedure that allows us to use a simple custom simulator to learn policies robust to the mismatch of simulation vs robot. In our experiments, we demonstrate that the policy learned in the simulator is able to pivot the object to the desired target angle on the real robot. We also show generalization to an object with different inertia, shape, mass and friction properties than those used during training. This result is a step towards making model-free reinforcement learning available for solving robotics tasks via pre-training in simulators that offer only an imprecise match to the real-world dynamics. 

Title: Monocular Direct Sparse Localization in a Prior 3D Surfel Map
Abstract:  In this paper, we introduce an approach to tracking the pose of a monocular camera in a prior surfel map. By rendering vertex and normal maps from the prior surfel map, the global planar information for the sparse tracked points in the image frame is obtained. The tracked points with and without the global planar information involve both global and local constraints of frames to the system. Our approach formulates all constraints in the form of direct photometric errors within a local window of the frames. The final optimization utilizes these constraints to provide the accurate estimation of global 6-DoF camera poses with the absolute scale. The extensive simulation and real-world experiments demonstrate that our monocular method can provide accurate camera localization results under various conditions. 

Title: Visual Object Categorization Based on Hierarchical Shape Motifs Learned From Noisy Point Cloud Decompositions
Abstract:  Object shape is a key cue that contributes to the semantic understanding of objects. In this work we focus on the categorization of real-world object point clouds to particular shape types. Therein surface description and representation of object shape structure have significant influence on shape categorization accuracy, when dealing with real-world scenes featuring noisy, partial and occluded object observations. An unsupervised hierarchical learning procedure is utilized here to symbolically describe surface characteristics on multiple semantic levels. Furthermore, a constellation model is proposed that hierarchically decomposes objects. The decompositions are described as constellations of symbols (shape motifs) in a gradual order, hence reflecting shape structure from local to global, i.e., from parts over groups of parts to entire objects. The combination of this multi-level description of surfaces and the hierarchical decomposition of shapes leads to a representation which allows to conceptualize shapes. An object discrimination has been observed in experiments with seven categories featuring instances with sensor noise, occlusions as well as inter-category and intra-category similarities. Experiments include the evaluation of the proposed description and shape decomposition approach, and comparisons to Fast Point Feature Histograms, a Vocabulary Tree and a neural network-based Deep Learning method. Furthermore, experiments are conducted with alternative datasets which analyze the generalization capability of the proposed approach. 

Title: ML-driven Malware that Targets AV Safety
Abstract:  Ensuring the safety of autonomous vehicles (AVs) is critical for their mass deployment and public adoption. However, security attacks that violate safety constraints and cause accidents are a significant deterrent to achieving public trust in AVs, and that hinders a vendor's ability to deploy AVs. Creating a security hazard that results in a severe safety compromise (for example, an accident) is compelling from an attacker's perspective. In this paper, we introduce an attack model, a method to deploy the attack in the form of smart malware, and an experimental evaluation of its impact on production-grade autonomous driving software. We find that determining the time interval during which to launch the attack is{ critically} important for causing safety hazards (such as collisions) with a high degree of success. For example, the smart malware caused 33X more forced emergency braking than random attacks did, and accidents in 52.6% of the driving simulations. 

Title: Physically Realizable Adversarial Examples for LiDAR Object Detection
Abstract:  Modern autonomous driving systems rely heavily on deep learning models to process point cloud sensory data; meanwhile, deep models have been shown to be susceptible to adversarial attacks with visually imperceptible perturbations. Despite the fact that this poses a security concern for the self-driving industry, there has been very little exploration in terms of 3D perception, as most adversarial attacks have only been applied to 2D flat images. In this paper, we address this issue and present a method to generate universal 3D adversarial objects to fool LiDAR detectors. In particular, we demonstrate that placing an adversarial object on the rooftop of any target vehicle to hide the vehicle entirely from LiDAR detectors with a success rate of 80%. We report attack results on a suite of detectors using various input representation of point clouds. We also conduct a pilot study on adversarial defense using data augmentation. This is one step closer towards safer self-driving under unseen conditions from limited training data. 

Title: Real-Time Object Pose Estimation with Pose Interpreter Networks
Abstract:  In this work, we introduce pose interpreter networks for 6-DoF object pose estimation. In contrast to other CNN-based approaches to pose estimation that require expensively annotated object pose data, our pose interpreter network is trained entirely on synthetic pose data. We use object masks as an intermediate representation to bridge real and synthetic. We show that when combined with a segmentation model trained on RGB images, our synthetically trained pose interpreter network is able to generalize to real data. Our end-to-end system for object pose estimation runs in real-time (20 Hz) on live RGB data, without using depth information or ICP refinement. 

Title: PrimiTect: Fast Continuous Hough Voting for Primitive Detection
Abstract:  This paper tackles the problem of data abstraction in the context of 3D point sets. Our method classifies points into different geometric primitives, such as planes and cones, leading to a compact representation of the data. Being based on a semi-global Hough voting scheme, the method does not need initialization and is robust, accurate, and efficient. We use a local, low-dimensional parameterization of primitives to determine type, shape and pose of the object that a point belongs to. This makes our algorithm suitable to run on devices with low computational power, as often required in robotics applications. The evaluation shows that our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods both in terms of accuracy and robustness. 

Title: MLOD: A multi-view 3D object detection based on robust feature fusion method
Abstract:  This paper presents Multi-view Labelling Object Detector (MLOD). The detector takes an RGB image and a LIDAR point cloud as input and follows the two-stage object detection framework. A Region Proposal Network (RPN) generates 3D proposals in a Bird's Eye View (BEV) projection of the point cloud. The second stage projects the 3D proposal bounding boxes to the image and BEV feature maps and sends the corresponding map crops to a detection header for classification and bounding-box regression. Unlike other multi-view based methods, the cropped image features are not directly fed to the detection header, but masked by the depth information to filter out parts outside 3D bounding boxes. The fusion of image and BEV features is challenging, as they are derived from different perspectives. We introduce a novel detection header, which provides detection results not just from fusion layer, but also from each sensor channel. Hence the object detector can be trained on data labelled in different views to avoid the degeneration of feature extractors. MLOD achieves state-of-the-art performance on the KITTI 3D object detection benchmark. Most importantly, the evaluation shows that the new header architecture is effective in preventing image feature extractor degeneration. 

Title: Curiosity-Driven Multi-Criteria Hindsight Experience Replay
Abstract:  Dealing with sparse rewards is a longstanding challenge in reinforcement learning. The recent use of hindsight methods have achieved success on a variety of sparse-reward tasks, but they fail on complex tasks such as stacking multiple blocks with a robot arm in simulation. Curiosity-driven exploration using the prediction error of a learned dynamics model as an intrinsic reward has been shown to be effective for exploring a number of sparse-reward environments. We present a method that combines hindsight with curiosity-driven exploration and curriculum learning in order to solve the challenging sparse-reward block stacking task. We are the first to stack more than two blocks using only sparse reward without human demonstrations. 

Title: Online SLAM with Any-time Self-calibration and Automatic Change Detection
Abstract:  A framework for online simultaneous localization, mapping and self-calibration is presented which can detect and handle significant change in the calibration parameters. Estimates are computed in constant-time by factoring the problem and focusing on segments of the trajectory that are most informative for the purposes of calibration. A novel technique is presented to detect the probability that a significant change is present in the calibration parameters. The system is then able to re-calibrate. Maximum likelihood trajectory and map estimates are computed using an asynchronous and adaptive optimization. The system requires no prior information and is able to initialize without any special motions or routines, or in the case where observability over calibration parameters is delayed. The system is experimentally validated to calibrate camera intrinsic parameters for a nonlinear camera model on a monocular dataset featuring a significant zoom event partway through, and achieves high accuracy despite unknown initial calibration parameters. Self-calibration and re-calibration parameters are shown to closely match estimates computed using a calibration target. The accuracy of the system is demonstrated with SLAM results that achieve sub-1% distance-travel error even in the presence of significant re-calibration events. 

Title: FlyCap: Markerless Motion Capture Using Multiple Autonomous Flying Cameras
Abstract:  Aiming at automatic, convenient and non-instrusive motion capture, this paper presents a new generation markerless motion capture technique, the FlyCap system, to capture surface motions of moving characters using multiple autonomous flying cameras (autonomous unmanned aerial vehicles(UAV) each integrated with an RGBD video camera). During data capture, three cooperative flying cameras automatically track and follow the moving target who performs large scale motions in a wide space. We propose a novel non-rigid surface registration method to track and fuse the depth of the three flying cameras for surface motion tracking of the moving target, and simultaneously calculate the pose of each flying camera. We leverage the using of visual-odometry information provided by the UAV platform, and formulate the surface tracking problem in a non-linear objective function that can be linearized and effectively minimized through a Gaussian-Newton method. Quantitative and qualitative experimental results demonstrate the competent and plausible surface and motion reconstruction results 

Title: AlignNet-3D: Fast Point Cloud Registration of Partially Observed Objects
Abstract:  Methods tackling multi-object tracking need to estimate the number of targets in the sensing area as well as to estimate their continuous state. While the majority of existing methods focus on data association, precise state (3D pose) estimation is often only coarsely estimated by approximating targets with centroids or (3D) bounding boxes. However, in automotive scenarios, motion perception of surrounding agents is critical and inaccuracies in the vehicle close-range can have catastrophic consequences. In this work, we focus on precise 3D track state estimation and propose a learning-based approach for object-centric relative motion estimation of partially observed objects. Instead of approximating targets with their centroids, our approach is capable of utilizing noisy 3D point segments of objects to estimate their motion. To that end, we propose a simple, yet effective and efficient network, \method, that learns to align point clouds. Our evaluation on two different datasets demonstrates that our method outperforms computationally expensive, global 3D registration methods while being significantly more efficient. We make our data, code, and models available at https://www.vision.rwth-aachen.de/page/alignnet. 

Title: HAMLET: A Hierarchical Multimodal Attention-based Human Activity Recognition Algorithm
Abstract:  To fluently collaborate with people, robots need the ability to recognize human activities accurately. Although modern robots are equipped with various sensors, robust human activity recognition (HAR) still remains a challenging task for robots due to difficulties related to multimodal data fusion. To address these challenges, in this work, we introduce a deep neural network-based multimodal HAR algorithm, HAMLET. HAMLET incorporates a hierarchical architecture, where the lower layer encodes spatio-temporal features from unimodal data by adopting a multi-head self-attention mechanism. We develop a novel multimodal attention mechanism for disentangling and fusing the salient unimodal features to compute the multimodal features in the upper layer. Finally, multimodal features are used in a fully connect neural-network to recognize human activities. We evaluated our algorithm by comparing its performance to several state-of-the-art activity recognition algorithms on three human activity datasets. The results suggest that HAMLET outperformed all other evaluated baselines across all datasets and metrics tested, with the highest top-1 accuracy of 95.12% and 97.45% on the UTD-MHAD [1] and the UT-Kinect [2] datasets respectively, and F1-score of 81.52% on the UCSD-MIT [3] dataset. We further visualize the unimodal and multimodal attention maps, which provide us with a tool to interpret the impact of attention mechanisms concerning HAR. 

Title: Learning to Detect Collisions for Continuum Manipulators without a Prior Model
Abstract:  Due to their flexibility, dexterity, and compact size, Continuum Manipulators (CMs) can enhance minimally invasive interventions. In these procedures, the CM may be operated in proximity of sensitive organs; therefore, requiring accurate and appropriate feedback when colliding with their surroundings. Conventional CM collision detection algorithms rely on a combination of exact CM constrained kinematics model, geometrical assumptions such as constant curvature behavior, a priori knowledge of the environmental constraint geometry, and/or additional sensors to scan the environment or sense contacts. In this paper, we propose a data-driven machine learning approach using only the available sensory information, without requiring any prior geometrical assumptions, model of the CM or the surrounding environment. The proposed algorithm is implemented and evaluated on a non-constant curvature CM, equipped with Fiber Bragg Grating (FBG) optical sensors for shape sensing purposes. Results demonstrate successful detection of collisions in constrained environments with soft and hard obstacles with unknown stiffness and location. 

Title: One-Shot Hierarchical Imitation Learning of Compound Visuomotor Tasks
Abstract:  We consider the problem of learning multi-stage vision-based tasks on a real robot from a single video of a human performing the task, while leveraging demonstration data of subtasks with other objects. This problem presents a number of major challenges. Video demonstrations without teleoperation are easy for humans to provide, but do not provide any direct supervision. Learning policies from raw pixels enables full generality but calls for large function approximators with many parameters to be learned. Finally, compound tasks can require impractical amounts of demonstration data, when treated as a monolithic skill. To address these challenges, we propose a method that learns both how to learn primitive behaviors from video demonstrations and how to dynamically compose these behaviors to perform multi-stage tasks by "watching" a human demonstrator. Our results on a simulated Sawyer robot and real PR2 robot illustrate our method for learning a variety of order fulfillment and kitchen serving tasks with novel objects and raw pixel inputs. 

Title: Predicting optimal value functions by interpolating reward functions in scalarized multi-objective reinforcement learning
Abstract:  A common approach for defining a reward function for Multi-objective Reinforcement Learning (MORL) problems is the weighted sum of the multiple objectives. The weights are then treated as design parameters dependent on the expertise (and preference) of the person performing the learning, with the typical result that a new solution is required for any change in these settings. This paper investigates the relationship between the reward function and the optimal value function for MORL; specifically addressing the question of how to approximate the optimal value function well beyond the set of weights for which the optimization problem was actually solved, thereby avoiding the need to recompute for any particular choice. We prove that the value function transforms smoothly given a transformation of weights of the reward function (and thus a smooth interpolation in the policy space). A Gaussian process is used to obtain a smooth interpolation over the reward function weights of the optimal value function for three well-known examples: GridWorld, Objectworld and Pendulum. The results show that the interpolation can provide very robust values for sample states and action space in discrete and continuous domain problems. Significant advantages arise from utilizing this interpolation technique in the domain of autonomous vehicles: easy, instant adaptation of user preferences while driving and true randomization of obstacle vehicle behavior preferences during training. 

Title: End-to-End Pixel-Based Deep Active Inference for Body Perception and Action
Abstract:  We present a pixel-based deep active inference algorithm (PixelAI) inspired by human body perception and action. Our algorithm combines the free-energy principle from neuroscience, rooted in variational inference, with deep convolutional decoders to scale the algorithm to directly deal with raw visual input and provide online adaptive inference. Our approach is validated by studying body perception and action in a simulated and a real Nao robot. Results show that our approach allows the robot to perform 1) dynamical body estimation of its arm using only monocular camera images and 2) autonomous reaching to "imagined" arm poses in the visual space. This suggests that robot and human body perception and action can be efficiently solved by viewing both as an active inference problem guided by ongoing sensory input. 

Title: Learning local trajectories for high precision robotic tasks : application to KUKA LBR iiwa Cartesian positioning
Abstract:  To ease the development of robot learning in industry, two conditions need to be fulfilled. Manipulators must be able to learn high accuracy and precision tasks while being safe for workers in the factory. In this paper, we extend previously submitted work which consists in rapid learning of local high accuracy behaviors. By exploration and regression, linear and quadratic models are learnt for respectively the dynamics and cost function. Iterative Linear Quadratic Gaussian Regulator combined with cost quadratic regression can converge rapidly in the final stages towards high accuracy behavior as the cost function is modelled quite precisely. In this paper, both a different cost function and a second order improvement method are implemented within this framework. We also propose an analysis of the algorithm parameters through simulation for a positioning task. Finally, an experimental validation on a KUKA LBR iiwa robot is carried out. This collaborative robot manipulator can be easily programmed into safety mode, which makes it qualified for the second industry constraint stated above. 

Title: RISAS: A Novel Rotation, Illumination, Scale Invariant Appearance and Shape Feature
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel appearance and shape feature, RISAS, which is robust to viewpoint, illumination, scale and rotation variations. RISAS consists of a keypoint detector and a feature descriptor both of which utilise texture and geometric information present in the appearance and shape channels. A novel response function based on the surface normals is used in combination with the Harris corner detector for selecting keypoints in the scene. A strategy that uses the depth information for scale estimation and background elimination is proposed to select the neighbourhood around the keypoints in order to build precise invariant descriptors. Proposed descriptor relies on the ordering of both grayscale intensity and shape information in the neighbourhood. Comprehensive experiments which confirm the effectiveness of the proposed RGB-D feature when compared with CSHOT and LOIND are presented. Furthermore, we highlight the utility of incorporating texture and shape information in the design of both the detector and the descriptor by demonstrating the enhanced performance of CSHOT and LOIND when combined with RISAS detector. 

Title: Spin Detection in Robotic Table Tennis
Abstract:  In table tennis, the rotation (spin) of the ball plays a crucial role. A table tennis match will feature a variety of strokes. Each generates different amounts and types of spin. To develop a robot that can compete with a human player, the robot needs to detect spin, so it can plan an appropriate return stroke. In this paper we compare three methods to estimate spin. The first two approaches use a high-speed camera that captures the ball in flight at a frame rate of 380 Hz. This camera allows the movement of the circular brand logo printed on the ball to be seen. The first approach uses background difference to determine the position of the logo. In a second alternative, we train a CNN to predict the orientation of the logo. The third method evaluates the trajectory of the ball and derives the rotation from the effect of the Magnus force. This method gives the highest accuracy and is used for a demonstration. Our robot successfully copes with different spin types in a real table tennis rally against a human opponent. 

Title: Shape Estimation for Elongated Deformable Object using B-spline Chained Multiple Random Matrices Model
Abstract:  In this paper, a B-spline chained multiple random matrices representation is proposed to model geometric characteristics of an elongated deformable object. The hyper degrees of freedom structure of the elongated deformable object make its shape estimation challenging. Based on the likelihood function of the proposed model, an expectation-maximization (EM) method is derived to estimate the shape of the elongated deformable object. A split and merge method based on the Euclidean minimum spanning tree (EMST) is proposed to provide initialization for the EM algorithm. The proposed algorithm is evaluated for the shape estimation of the elongated deformable objects in scenarios, such as the static rope with various configurations (including configurations with intersection), the continuous manipulation of a rope and a plastic tube, and the assembly of two plastic tubes. The execution time is computed and the accuracy of the shape estimation results is evaluated based on the comparisons between the estimated width values and its ground-truth, and the intersection over union (IoU) metric. 

Title: Prediction and Control with Temporal Segment Models
Abstract:  We introduce a method for learning the dynamics of complex nonlinear systems based on deep generative models over temporal segments of states and actions. Unlike dynamics models that operate over individual discrete timesteps, we learn the distribution over future state trajectories conditioned on past state, past action, and planned future action trajectories, as well as a latent prior over action trajectories. Our approach is based on convolutional autoregressive models and variational autoencoders. It makes stable and accurate predictions over long horizons for complex, stochastic systems, effectively expressing uncertainty and modeling the effects of collisions, sensory noise, and action delays. The learned dynamics model and action prior can be used for end-to-end, fully differentiable trajectory optimization and model-based policy optimization, which we use to evaluate the performance and sample-efficiency of our method. 

Title: Unsupervised Learning of Dense Optical Flow, Depth and Egomotion from Sparse Event Data
Abstract:  In this work we present a lightweight, unsupervised learning pipeline for \textit{dense} depth, optical flow and egomotion estimation from sparse event output of the Dynamic Vision Sensor (DVS). To tackle this low level vision task, we use a novel encoder-decoder neural network architecture - ECN. Our work is the first monocular pipeline that generates dense depth and optical flow from sparse event data only. The network works in self-supervised mode and has just 150k parameters. We evaluate our pipeline on the MVSEC self driving dataset and present results for depth, optical flow and and egomotion estimation. Due to the lightweight design, the inference part of the network runs at 250 FPS on a single GPU, making the pipeline ready for realtime robotics applications. Our experiments demonstrate significant improvements upon previous works that used deep learning on event data, as well as the ability of our pipeline to perform well during both day and night. 

Title: OIL: Observational Imitation Learning
Abstract:  Recent work has explored the problem of autonomous navigation by imitating a teacher and learning an end-to-end policy, which directly predicts controls from raw images. However, these approaches tend to be sensitive to mistakes by the teacher and do not scale well to other environments or vehicles. To this end, we propose Observational Imitation Learning (OIL), a novel imitation learning variant that supports online training and automatic selection of optimal behavior by observing multiple imperfect teachers. We apply our proposed methodology to the challenging problems of autonomous driving and UAV racing. For both tasks, we utilize the Sim4CV simulator that enables the generation of large amounts of synthetic training data and also allows for online learning and evaluation. We train a perception network to predict waypoints from raw image data and use OIL to train another network to predict controls from these waypoints. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our trained network outperforms its teachers, conventional imitation learning (IL) and reinforcement learning (RL) baselines and even humans in simulation. The project website is available at https://sites.google.com/kaust.edu.sa/oil/ and a video at https://youtu.be/_rhq8a0qgeg 

Title: Adaptive and Multiple Time-scale Eligibility Traces for Online Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) is one of the promising approaches to make robots accomplish complicated tasks. In the robotic problems with time-varying environment, online DRL is required since the methods that directly reuse the stored experience data cannot follow the change of the environment. Eligibility traces method is well known as an online learning technique to improve sample efficiency in the traditional reinforcement learning with linear regressors, not DRL. The one reason why the eligibility traces are not integrated with DRL is because dependencies between parameters of deep neural networks would destroy the eligibility traces. To mitigate this problem, this study proposes a new eligibility traces method that makes it possible to be applied even into DRL. The eligibility traces in DRL accumulate gradients computed based on the past parameters, which are different from that computed based on the latest parameters. Hence, the proposed method considers the divergence between the past and latest parameters to adaptively decay the eligibility traces. Instead of that divergence directly, Bregman divergences between outputs computed by the past and latest parameters, which are computationally feasible, are exploited. In addition, inspired by the replacing eligibility traces, a generalized method with multiple time-scale traces are newly designed. In benchmark tasks on a dynamic robotic simulator, the proposed method outperformed the conventional methods in terms of the learning speed and the quality of the tasks by the learned policy. A real-robot demonstration verified the importance of online DRL and the adaptability of the proposed method to the time-varying environment. 

Title: Learning by Cheating
Abstract:  Vision-based urban driving is hard. The autonomous system needs to learn to perceive the world and act in it. We show that this challenging learning problem can be simplified by decomposing it into two stages. We first train an agent that has access to privileged information. This privileged agent cheats by observing the ground-truth layout of the environment and the positions of all traffic participants. In the second stage, the privileged agent acts as a teacher that trains a purely vision-based sensorimotor agent. The resulting sensorimotor agent does not have access to any privileged information and does not cheat. This two-stage training procedure is counter-intuitive at first, but has a number of important advantages that we analyze and empirically demonstrate. We use the presented approach to train a vision-based autonomous driving system that substantially outperforms the state of the art on the CARLA benchmark and the recent NoCrash benchmark. Our approach achieves, for the first time, 100% success rate on all tasks in the original CARLA benchmark, sets a new record on the NoCrash benchmark, and reduces the frequency of infractions by an order of magnitude compared to the prior state of the art. For the video that summarizes this work, see https://youtu.be/u9ZCxxD-UUw 

Title: Geometrical Stem Detection from Image Data for Precision Agriculture
Abstract:  High efficiency in precision farming depends on accurate tools to perform weed detection and mapping of crops. This allows for precise removal of harmful weeds with a lower amount of pesticides, as well as increase of the harvest's yield by providing the farmer with valuable information. In this paper, we address the problem of fully automatic stem detection from image data for this purpose. Our approach runs on mobile agricultural robots taking RGB images. After processing the images to obtain a vegetation mask, our approach separates each plant into its individual leaves and later estimates a precise stem position. This allows an upstream mapping algorithm to add the high-resolution stem positions as a semantic aggregate to the global map of the robot, which can be used for weeding and for analyzing crop statistics. We implemented our approach and thoroughly tested it on three different datasets with vegetation masks and stem position ground truth. The experiments presented in this paper conclude that our module is able to detect leaves and estimate the stem's position at a rate of 56 Hz on a single CPU. We furthermore provide the software to the community. 

Title: All Weather Perception: Joint Data Association, Tracking, and Classification for Autonomous Ground Vehicles
Abstract:  A novel probabilistic perception algorithm is presented as a real-time joint solution to data association, object tracking, and object classification for an autonomous ground vehicle in all-weather conditions. The presented algorithm extends a Rao-Blackwellized Particle Filter originally built with a particle filter for data association and a Kalman filter for multi-object tracking (Miller et al. 2011a) to now also include multiple model tracking for classification. Additionally a state-of-the-art vision detection algorithm that includes heading information for autonomous ground vehicle (AGV) applications was implemented. Cornell's AGV from the DARPA Urban Challenge was upgraded and used to experimentally examine if and how state-of-the-art vision algorithms can complement or replace lidar and radar sensors. Sensor and algorithm performance in adverse weather and lighting conditions is tested. Experimental evaluation demonstrates robust all-weather data association, tracking, and classification where camera, lidar, and radar sensors complement each other inside the joint probabilistic perception algorithm. 

Title: TITAN: Future Forecast using Action Priors
Abstract:  We consider the problem of predicting the future trajectory of scene agents from egocentric views obtained from a moving platform. This problem is important in a variety of domains, particularly for autonomous systems making reactive or strategic decisions in navigation. In an attempt to address this problem, we introduce TITAN (Trajectory Inference using Targeted Action priors Network), a new model that incorporates prior positions, actions, and context to forecast future trajectory of agents and future ego-motion. In the absence of an appropriate dataset for this task, we created the TITAN dataset that consists of 700 labeled video-clips (with odometry) captured from a moving vehicle on highly interactive urban traffic scenes in Tokyo. Our dataset includes 50 labels including vehicle states and actions, pedestrian age groups, and targeted pedestrian action attributes that are organized hierarchically corresponding to atomic, simple/complex-contextual, transportive, and communicative actions. To evaluate our model, we conducted extensive experiments on the TITAN dataset, revealing significant performance improvement against baselines and state-of-the-art algorithms. We also report promising results from our Agent Importance Mechanism (AIM), a module which provides insight into assessment of perceived risk by calculating the relative influence of each agent on the future ego-trajectory. The dataset is available at https://usa.honda-ri.com/titan 

Title: Dynamic Environment Prediction in Urban Scenes using Recurrent Representation Learning
Abstract:  A key challenge for autonomous driving is safe trajectory planning in cluttered, urban environments with dynamic obstacles, such as pedestrians, bicyclists, and other vehicles. A reliable prediction of the future environment, including the behavior of dynamic agents, would allow planning algorithms to proactively generate a trajectory in response to a rapidly changing environment. We present a novel framework that predicts the future occupancy state of the local environment surrounding an autonomous agent by learning a motion model from occupancy grid data using a neural network. We take advantage of the temporal structure of the grid data by utilizing a convolutional long-short term memory network in the form of the PredNet architecture. This method is validated on the KITTI dataset and demonstrates higher accuracy and better predictive power than baseline methods. 

Title: Any Motion Detector: Learning Class-agnostic Scene Dynamics from a Sequence of LiDAR Point Clouds
Abstract:  Object detection and motion parameters estimation are crucial tasks for self-driving vehicle safe navigation in a complex urban environment. In this work we propose a novel real-time approach of temporal context aggregation for motion detection and motion parameters estimation based on 3D point cloud sequence. We introduce an ego-motion compensation layer to achieve real-time inference with performance comparable to a naive odometric transform of the original point cloud sequence. Not only is the proposed architecture capable of estimating the motion of common road participants like vehicles or pedestrians but also generalizes to other object categories which are not present in training data. We also conduct an in-deep analysis of different temporal context aggregation strategies such as recurrent cells and 3D convolutions. Finally, we provide comparison results of our state-of-the-art model with existing solutions on KITTI Scene Flow dataset. 

Title: Learning Articulated Motion Models from Visual and Lingual Signals
Abstract:  In order for robots to operate effectively in homes and workplaces, they must be able to manipulate the articulated objects common within environments built for and by humans. Previous work learns kinematic models that prescribe this manipulation from visual demonstrations. Lingual signals, such as natural language descriptions and instructions, offer a complementary means of conveying knowledge of such manipulation models and are suitable to a wide range of interactions (e.g., remote manipulation). In this paper, we present a multimodal learning framework that incorporates both visual and lingual information to estimate the structure and parameters that define kinematic models of articulated objects. The visual signal takes the form of an RGB-D image stream that opportunistically captures object motion in an unprepared scene. Accompanying natural language descriptions of the motion constitute the lingual signal. We present a probabilistic language model that uses word embeddings to associate lingual verbs with their corresponding kinematic structures. By exploiting the complementary nature of the visual and lingual input, our method infers correct kinematic structures for various multiple-part objects on which the previous state-of-the-art, visual-only system fails. We evaluate our multimodal learning framework on a dataset comprised of a variety of household objects, and demonstrate a 36% improvement in model accuracy over the vision-only baseline. 

Title: Risk-Aware High-level Decisions for Automated Driving at Occluded Intersections with Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning is nowadays a popular framework for solving different decision making problems in automated driving. However, there are still some remaining crucial challenges that need to be addressed for providing more reliable policies. In this paper, we propose a generic risk-aware DQN approach in order to learn high level actions for driving through unsignalized occluded intersections. The proposed state representation provides lane based information which allows to be used for multi-lane scenarios. Moreover, we propose a risk based reward function which punishes risky situations instead of only collision failures. Such rewarding approach helps to incorporate risk prediction into our deep Q network and learn more reliable policies which are safer in challenging situations. The efficiency of the proposed approach is compared with a DQN learned with conventional collision based rewarding scheme and also with a rule-based intersection navigation policy. Evaluation results show that the proposed approach outperforms both of these methods. It provides safer actions than collision-aware DQN approach and is less overcautious than the rule-based policy. 

Title: Map as The Hidden Sensor: Fast Odometry-Based Global Localization
Abstract:  Accurate and robust global localization is essential to robotics applications. We propose a novel global localization method that employs the map traversability as a hidden observation. The resulting map-corrected odometry localization is able to provide an accurate belief tensor of the robot state. Our method can be used for blind robots in dark or highly reflective areas. In contrast to odometry drift in long-term, our method using only odometry and the map converges in longterm. Our method can also be integrated with other sensors to boost the localization performance. The algorithm does not have any initial state assumption and tracks all possible robot states at all times. Therefore, our method is global and is robust in the event of ambiguous observations. We parallel each step of our algorithm such that it can be performed in real-time (up to ~ 300 Hz) using GPU. We validate our algorithm in different publicly available floor-plans and show that it is able to converge to the ground truth fast while being robust to ambiguities. 

Title: Information Theoretic Regret Bounds for Online Nonlinear Control
Abstract:  This work studies the problem of sequential control in an unknown, nonlinear dynamical system, where we model the underlying system dynamics as an unknown function in a known Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space. This framework yields a general setting that permits discrete and continuous control inputs as well as non-smooth, non-differentiable dynamics. Our main result, the Lower Confidence-based Continuous Control ($LC^3$) algorithm, enjoys a near-optimal $O(\sqrt{T})$ regret bound against the optimal controller in episodic settings, where $T$ is the number of episodes. The bound has no explicit dependence on dimension of the system dynamics, which could be infinite, but instead only depends on information theoretic quantities. We empirically show its application to a number of nonlinear control tasks and demonstrate the benefit of exploration for learning model dynamics. 

Title: Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning Method for Autonomous Vehicle Behavior Planning
Abstract:  In this work, we propose a hierarchical reinforcement learning (HRL) structure which is capable of performing autonomous vehicle planning tasks in simulated environments with multiple sub-goals. In this hierarchical structure, the network is capable of 1) learning one task with multiple sub-goals simultaneously; 2) extracting attentions of states according to changing sub-goals during the learning process; 3) reusing the well-trained network of sub-goals for other similar tasks with the same sub-goals. The states are defined as processed observations which are transmitted from the perception system of the autonomous vehicle. A hybrid reward mechanism is designed for different hierarchical layers in the proposed HRL structure. Compared to traditional RL methods, our algorithm is more sample-efficient since its modular design allows reusing the policies of sub-goals across similar tasks. The results show that the proposed method converges to an optimal policy faster than traditional RL methods. 

Title: Learning End-To-End Scene Flow by Distilling Single Tasks Knowledge
Abstract:  Scene flow is a challenging task aimed at jointly estimating the 3D structure and motion of the sensed environment. Although deep learning solutions achieve outstanding performance in terms of accuracy, these approaches divide the whole problem into standalone tasks (stereo and optical flow) addressing them with independent networks. Such a strategy dramatically increases the complexity of the training procedure and requires power-hungry GPUs to infer scene flow barely at 1 FPS. Conversely, we propose DWARF, a novel and lightweight architecture able to infer full scene flow jointly reasoning about depth and optical flow easily and elegantly trainable end-to-end from scratch. Moreover, since ground truth images for full scene flow are scarce, we propose to leverage on the knowledge learned by networks specialized in stereo or flow, for which much more data are available, to distill proxy annotations. Exhaustive experiments show that i) DWARF runs at about 10 FPS on a single high-end GPU and about 1 FPS on NVIDIA Jetson TX2 embedded at KITTI resolution, with moderate drop in accuracy compared to 10x deeper models, ii) learning from many distilled samples is more effective than from the few, annotated ones available. Code available at: https://github.com/FilippoAleotti/Dwarf-Tensorflow 

Title: Robots that can adapt like animals
Abstract:  As robots leave the controlled environments of factories to autonomously function in more complex, natural environments, they will have to respond to the inevitable fact that they will become damaged. However, while animals can quickly adapt to a wide variety of injuries, current robots cannot "think outside the box" to find a compensatory behavior when damaged: they are limited to their pre-specified self-sensing abilities, can diagnose only anticipated failure modes, and require a pre-programmed contingency plan for every type of potential damage, an impracticality for complex robots. Here we introduce an intelligent trial and error algorithm that allows robots to adapt to damage in less than two minutes, without requiring self-diagnosis or pre-specified contingency plans. Before deployment, a robot exploits a novel algorithm to create a detailed map of the space of high-performing behaviors: This map represents the robot's intuitions about what behaviors it can perform and their value. If the robot is damaged, it uses these intuitions to guide a trial-and-error learning algorithm that conducts intelligent experiments to rapidly discover a compensatory behavior that works in spite of the damage. Experiments reveal successful adaptations for a legged robot injured in five different ways, including damaged, broken, and missing legs, and for a robotic arm with joints broken in 14 different ways. This new technique will enable more robust, effective, autonomous robots, and suggests principles that animals may use to adapt to injury. 

Title: Flight Controller Synthesis Via Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Traditional control methods are inadequate in many deployment settings involving control of Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS). In such settings, CPS controllers must operate and respond to unpredictable interactions, conditions, or failure modes. Dealing with such unpredictability requires the use of executive and cognitive control functions that allow for planning and reasoning. Motivated by the sport of drone racing, this dissertation addresses these concerns for state-of-the-art flight control by investigating the use of deep neural networks to bring essential elements of higher-level cognition for constructing low level flight controllers. This thesis reports on the development and release of an open source, full solution stack for building neuro-flight controllers. This stack consists of the methodology for constructing a multicopter digital twin for synthesize the flight controller unique to a specific aircraft, a tuning framework for implementing training environments (GymFC), and a firmware for the world's first neural network supported flight controller (Neuroflight). GymFC's novel approach fuses together the digital twinning paradigm for flight control training to provide seamless transfer to hardware. Additionally, this thesis examines alternative reward system functions as well as changes to the software environment to bridge the gap between the simulation and real world deployment environments. Work summarized in this thesis demonstrates that reinforcement learning is able to be leveraged for training neural network controllers capable, not only of maintaining stable flight, but also precision aerobatic maneuvers in real world settings. As such, this work provides a foundation for developing the next generation of flight control systems. 

Title: Flexible Stereo: Constrained, Non-rigid, Wide-baseline Stereo Vision for Fixed-wing Aerial Platforms
Abstract:  This paper proposes a computationally efficient method to estimate the time-varying relative pose between two visual-inertial sensor rigs mounted on the flexible wings of a fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV). The estimated relative poses are used to generate highly accurate depth maps in real-time and can be employed for obstacle avoidance in low-altitude flights or landing maneuvers. The approach is structured as follows: Initially, a wing model is identified by fitting a probability density function to measured deviations from the nominal relative baseline transformation. At run-time, the prior knowledge about the wing model is fused in an Extended Kalman filter~(EKF) together with relative pose measurements obtained from solving a relative perspective N-point problem (PNP), and the linear accelerations and angular velocities measured by the two inertial measurement units (IMU) which are rigidly attached to the cameras. Results obtained from extensive synthetic experiments demonstrate that our proposed framework is able to estimate highly accurate baseline transformations and depth maps. 

Title: Continuous Control for High-Dimensional State Spaces: An Interactive Learning Approach
Abstract:  Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) has become a powerful methodology to solve complex decision-making problems. However, DRL has several limitations when used in real-world problems (e.g., robotics applications). For instance, long training times are required and cannot be accelerated in contrast to simulated environments, and reward functions may be hard to specify/model and/or to compute. Moreover, the transfer of policies learned in a simulator to the real-world has limitations (reality gap). On the other hand, machine learning methods that rely on the transfer of human knowledge to an agent have shown to be time efficient for obtaining well performing policies and do not require a reward function. In this context, we analyze the use of human corrective feedback during task execution to learn policies with high-dimensional state spaces, by using the D-COACH framework, and we propose new variants of this framework. D-COACH is a Deep Learning based extension of COACH (COrrective Advice Communicated by Humans), where humans are able to shape policies through corrective advice. The enhanced version of D-COACH, which is proposed in this paper, largely reduces the time and effort of a human for training a policy. Experimental results validate the efficiency of the D-COACH framework in three different problems (simulated and with real robots), and show that its enhanced version reduces the human training effort considerably, and makes it feasible to learn policies within periods of time in which a DRL agent do not reach any improvement. 

Title: Effects of sparse rewards of different magnitudes in the speed of learning of model-based actor critic methods
Abstract:  Actor critic methods with sparse rewards in model-based deep reinforcement learning typically require a deterministic binary reward function that reflects only two possible outcomes: if, for each step, the goal has been achieved or not. Our hypothesis is that we can influence an agent to learn faster by applying an external environmental pressure during training, which adversely impacts its ability to get higher rewards. As such, we deviate from the classical paradigm of sparse rewards and add a uniformly sampled reward value to the baseline reward to show that (1) sample efficiency of the training process can be correlated to the adversity experienced during training, (2) it is possible to achieve higher performance in less time and with less resources, (3) we can reduce the performance variability experienced seed over seed, (4) there is a maximum point after which more pressure will not generate better results, and (5) that random positive incentives have an adverse effect when using a negative reward strategy, making an agent under those conditions learn poorly and more slowly. These results have been shown to be valid for Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients using Hindsight Experience Replay in a well known Mujoco environment, but we argue that they could be generalized to other methods and environments as well. 

Title: Neural Self Talk: Image Understanding via Continuous Questioning and Answering
Abstract:  In this paper we consider the problem of continuously discovering image contents by actively asking image based questions and subsequently answering the questions being asked. The key components include a Visual Question Generation (VQG) module and a Visual Question Answering module, in which Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) and Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) are used. Given a dataset that contains images, questions and their answers, both modules are trained at the same time, with the difference being VQG uses the images as input and the corresponding questions as output, while VQA uses images and questions as input and the corresponding answers as output. We evaluate the self talk process subjectively using Amazon Mechanical Turk, which show effectiveness of the proposed method. 

Title: PERCH: Perception via Search for Multi-Object Recognition and Localization
Abstract:  In many robotic domains such as flexible automated manufacturing or personal assistance, a fundamental perception task is that of identifying and localizing objects whose 3D models are known. Canonical approaches to this problem include discriminative methods that find correspondences between feature descriptors computed over the model and observed data. While these methods have been employed successfully, they can be unreliable when the feature descriptors fail to capture variations in observed data; a classic cause being occlusion. As a step towards deliberative reasoning, we present PERCH: PErception via SeaRCH, an algorithm that seeks to find the best explanation of the observed sensor data by hypothesizing possible scenes in a generative fashion. Our contributions are: i) formulating the multi-object recognition and localization task as an optimization problem over the space of hypothesized scenes, ii) exploiting structure in the optimization to cast it as a combinatorial search problem on what we call the Monotone Scene Generation Tree, and iii) leveraging parallelization and recent advances in multi-heuristic search in making combinatorial search tractable. We prove that our system can guaranteedly produce the best explanation of the scene under the chosen cost function, and validate our claims on real world RGB-D test data. Our experimental results show that we can identify and localize objects under heavy occlusion--cases where state-of-the-art methods struggle. 

Title: Adaptive Dynamic Programming for Model-free Tracking of Trajectories with Time-varying Parameters
Abstract:  In order to autonomously learn to control unknown systems optimally w.r.t. an objective function, Adaptive Dynamic Programming (ADP) is well-suited to adapt controllers based on experience from interaction with the system. In recent years, many researchers focused on the tracking case, where the aim is to follow a desired trajectory. So far, ADP tracking controllers assume that the reference trajectory follows time-invariant exo-system dynamics-an assumption that does not hold for many applications. In order to overcome this limitation, we propose a new Q-function which explicitly incorporates a parametrized approximation of the reference trajectory. This allows to learn to track a general class of trajectories by means of ADP. Once our Q-function has been learned, the associated controller copes with time-varying reference trajectories without need of further training and independent of exo-system dynamics. After proposing our general model-free off-policy tracking method, we provide analysis of the important special case of linear quadratic tracking. We conclude our paper with an example which demonstrates that our new method successfully learns the optimal tracking controller and outperforms existing approaches in terms of tracking error and cost. 

Title: Learning Interactive Behaviors for Musculoskeletal Robots Using Bayesian Interaction Primitives
Abstract:  Musculoskeletal robots that are based on pneumatic actuation have a variety of properties, such as compliance and back-drivability, that render them particularly appealing for human-robot collaboration. However, programming interactive and responsive behaviors for such systems is extremely challenging due to the nonlinearity and uncertainty inherent to their control. In this paper, we propose an approach for learning Bayesian Interaction Primitives for musculoskeletal robots given a limited set of example demonstrations. We show that this approach is capable of real-time state estimation and response generation for interaction with a robot for which no analytical model exists. Human-robot interaction experiments on a 'handshake' task show that the approach generalizes to new positions, interaction partners, and movement velocities. 

Title: GP-SUM. Gaussian Processes Filtering of non-Gaussian Beliefs
Abstract:  This work studies the problem of stochastic dynamic filtering and state propagation with complex beliefs. The main contribution is GP-SUM, a filtering algorithm tailored to dynamic systems and observation models expressed as Gaussian Processes (GP), and to states represented as a weighted sum of Gaussians. The key attribute of GP-SUM is that it does not rely on linearizations of the dynamic or observation models, or on unimodal Gaussian approximations of the belief, hence enables tracking complex state distributions. The algorithm can be seen as a combination of a sampling-based filter with a probabilistic Bayes filter. On the one hand, GP-SUM operates by sampling the state distribution and propagating each sample through the dynamic system and observation models. On the other hand, it achieves effective sampling and accurate probabilistic propagation by relying on the GP form of the system, and the sum-of-Gaussian form of the belief. We show that GP-SUM outperforms several GP-Bayes and Particle Filters on a standard benchmark. We also demonstrate its use in a pushing task, predicting with experimental accuracy the naturally occurring non-Gaussian distributions. 

Title: ViLiVO: Virtual LiDAR-Visual Odometry for an Autonomous Vehicle with a Multi-Camera System
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a multi-camera visual odometry (VO) system for an autonomous vehicle. Our system mainly consists of a virtual LiDAR and a pose tracker. We use a perspective transformation method to synthesize a surround-view image from undistorted fisheye camera images. With a semantic segmentation model, the free space can be extracted. The scans of the virtual LiDAR are generated by discretizing the contours of the free space. As for the pose tracker, we propose a visual odometry system fusing both the feature matching and the virtual LiDAR scan matching results. Only those feature points located in the free space area are utilized to ensure the 2D-2D matching for pose estimation. Furthermore, bundle adjustment (BA) is performed to minimize the feature points reprojection error and scan matching error. We apply our system to an autonomous vehicle equipped with four fisheye cameras. The testing scenarios include an outdoor parking lot as well as an indoor garage. Experimental results demonstrate that our system achieves a more robust and accurate performance comparing with a fisheye camera based monocular visual odometry system. 

Title: MetaGrasp: Data Efficient Grasping by Affordance Interpreter Network
Abstract:  Data-driven approach for grasping shows significant advance recently. But these approaches usually require much training data. To increase the efficiency of grasping data collection, this paper presents a novel grasp training system including the whole pipeline from data collection to model inference. The system can collect effective grasp sample with a corrective strategy assisted by antipodal grasp rule, and we design an affordance interpreter network to predict pixelwise grasp affordance map. We define graspability, ungraspability and background as grasp affordances. The key advantage of our system is that the pixel-level affordance interpreter network trained with only a small number of grasp samples under antipodal rule can achieve significant performance on totally unseen objects and backgrounds. The training sample is only collected in simulation. Extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments demonstrate the accuracy and robustness of our proposed approach. In the real-world grasp experiments, we achieve a grasp success rate of 93% on a set of household items and 91% on a set of adversarial items with only about 6,300 simulated samples. We also achieve 87% accuracy in clutter scenario. Although the model is trained using only RGB image, when changing the background textures, it also performs well and can achieve even 94% accuracy on the set of adversarial objects, which outperforms current state-of-the-art methods. 

Title: Focused Model-Learning and Planning for Non-Gaussian Continuous State-Action Systems
Abstract:  We introduce a framework for model learning and planning in stochastic domains with continuous state and action spaces and non-Gaussian transition models. It is efficient because (1) local models are estimated only when the planner requires them; (2) the planner focuses on the most relevant states to the current planning problem; and (3) the planner focuses on the most informative and/or high-value actions. Our theoretical analysis shows the validity and asymptotic optimality of the proposed approach. Empirically, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm on a simulated multi-modal pushing problem. 

Title: Degenerate Motions in Multicamera Cluster SLAM with Non-overlapping Fields of View
Abstract:  An analysis of the relative motion and point feature model configurations leading to solution degeneracy is presented, for the case of a Simultaneous Localization and Mapping system using multicamera clusters with non-overlapping fields-of-view. The SLAM optimization system seeks to minimize image space reprojection error and is formulated for a cluster containing any number of component cameras, observing any number of point features over two keyframes. The measurement Jacobian is transformed to expose a reduced-dimension representation such that the degeneracy of the system can be determined by the rank of a dense submatrix. A set of relative motions sufficient for degeneracy are identified for certain cluster configurations, independent of target model geometry. Furthermore, it is shown that increasing the number of cameras within the cluster and observing features across different cameras over the two keyframes reduces the size of the degenerate motion sets significantly. 

Title: Real-time Image-based 6-DOF Localization in Large-Scale Environments
Abstract:  We present a real-time approach for image-based localization within large scenes that have been reconstructed offline using structure from motion (Sfm). From monocular video, our method continuously computes a precise 6-DOF camera pose, by efficiently tracking natural features and matching them to 3D points in the Sfm point cloud. Our main contribution lies in efficiently interleaving a fast keypoint tracker that uses inexpensive binary feature descriptors with a new approach for direct 2D-to-3D matching. The 2D-to-3D matching avoids the need for online extraction of scale-invariant features. Instead, offline we construct an indexed database containing multiple DAISY descriptors per 3D point extracted at multiple scales. The key to the efficiency of our method lies in invoking DAISY descriptor extraction and matching sparingly during localization, and in distributing this computation over a window of successive frames. This enables the algorithm to run in real-time, without fluctuations in the latency over long durations. We evaluate the method in large indoor and outdoor scenes. Our algorithm runs at over 30 Hz on a laptop and at 12 Hz on a low-power, mobile computer suitable for onboard computation on a quadrotor micro aerial vehicle. 

Title: A Sensorimotor Perspective on Grounding the Semantic of Simple Visual Features
Abstract:  In Machine Learning and Robotics, the semantic content of visual features is usually provided to the system by a human who interprets its content. On the contrary, strictly unsupervised approaches have difficulties relating the statistics of sensory inputs to their semantic content without also relying on prior knowledge introduced in the system. We proposed in this paper to tackle this problem from a sensorimotor perspective. In line with the Sensorimotor Contingencies Theory, we make the fundamental assumption that the semantic content of sensory inputs at least partially stems from the way an agent can actively transform it. We illustrate our approach by formalizing how simple visual features can induce invariants in a naive agent's sensorimotor experience, and evaluate it on a simple simulated visual system. Without any a priori knowledge about the way its sensorimotor information is encoded, we show how an agent can characterize the uniformity and edge-ness of the visual features it interacts with. 

Title: Fast and Robust Iterative Closet Point
Abstract:  The Iterative Closest Point (ICP) algorithm and its variants are a fundamental technique for rigid registration between two point sets, with wide applications in different areas from robotics to 3D reconstruction. The main drawbacks for ICP are its slow convergence as well as its sensitivity to outliers, missing data, and partial overlaps. Recent work such as Sparse ICP achieves robustness via sparsity optimization at the cost of computational speed. In this paper, we propose a new method for robust registration with fast convergence. First, we show that the classical point-to-point ICP can be treated as a majorization-minimization (MM) algorithm, and propose an Anderson acceleration approach to improve its convergence. In addition, we introduce a robust error metric based on the Welsch's function, which is minimized efficiently using the MM algorithm with Anderson acceleration. On challenging datasets with noises and partial overlaps, we achieve similar or better accuracy than Sparse ICP while being at least an order of magnitude faster. Finally, we extend the robust formulation to point-to-plane ICP, and solve the resulting problem using a similar Anderson-accelerated MM strategy. Our robust ICP methods improve the registration accuracy on benchmark datasets while being competitive in computational time. 

Title: Instance-wise Depth and Motion Learning from Monocular Videos
Abstract:  We present an end-to-end joint training framework that explicitly models 6-DoF motion of multiple dynamic objects, ego-motion and depth in a monocular camera setup without supervision. Our technical contributions are three-fold. First, we propose a differentiable forward rigid projection module that plays a key role in our instance-wise depth and motion learning. Second, we design an instance-wise photometric and geometric consistency loss that effectively decomposes background and moving object regions. Lastly, we introduce a new auto-annotation scheme to produce video instance segmentation maps that will be utilized as input to our training pipeline. These proposed elements are validated in a detailed ablation study. Through extensive experiments conducted on the KITTI dataset, our framework is shown to outperform the state-of-the-art depth and motion estimation methods. Our code and dataset will be available at https://github.com/SeokjuLee/Insta-DM. 

Title: Egocentric Object Manipulation Graphs
Abstract:  We introduce Egocentric Object Manipulation Graphs (Ego-OMG) - a novel representation for activity modeling and anticipation of near future actions integrating three components: 1) semantic temporal structure of activities, 2) short-term dynamics, and 3) representations for appearance. Semantic temporal structure is modeled through a graph, embedded through a Graph Convolutional Network, whose states model characteristics of and relations between hands and objects. These state representations derive from all three levels of abstraction, and span segments delimited by the making and breaking of hand-object contact. Short-term dynamics are modeled in two ways: A) through 3D convolutions, and B) through anticipating the spatiotemporal end points of hand trajectories, where hands come into contact with objects. Appearance is modeled through deep spatiotemporal features produced through existing methods. We note that in Ego-OMG it is simple to swap these appearance features, and thus Ego-OMG is complementary to most existing action anticipation methods. We evaluate Ego-OMG on the EPIC Kitchens Action Anticipation Challenge. The consistency of the egocentric perspective of EPIC Kitchens allows for the utilization of the hand-centric cues upon which Ego-OMG relies. We demonstrate state-of-the-art performance, outranking all other previous published methods by large margins and ranking first on the unseen test set and second on the seen test set of the EPIC Kitchens Action Anticipation Challenge. We attribute the success of Ego-OMG to the modeling of semantic structure captured over long timespans. We evaluate the design choices made through several ablation studies. Code will be released upon acceptance 

Title: Learning Probabilistic Intersection Traffic Models for Trajectory Prediction
Abstract:  Autonomous agents must be able to safely interact with other vehicles to integrate into urban environments. The safety of these agents is dependent on their ability to predict collisions with other vehicles' future trajectories for replanning and collision avoidance. The information needed to predict collisions can be learned from previously observed vehicle trajectories in a specific environment, generating a traffic model. The learned traffic model can then be incorporated as prior knowledge into any trajectory estimation method being used in this environment. This work presents a Gaussian process based probabilistic traffic model that is used to quantify vehicle behaviors in an intersection. The Gaussian process model provides estimates for the average vehicle trajectory, while also capturing the variance between the different paths a vehicle may take in the intersection. The method is demonstrated on a set of time-series position trajectories. These trajectories are reconstructed by removing object recognition errors and missed frames that may occur due to data source processing. To create the intersection traffic model, the reconstructed trajectories are clustered based on their source and destination lanes. For each cluster, a Gaussian process model is created to capture the average behavior and the variance of the cluster. To show the applicability of the Gaussian model, the test trajectories are classified with only partial observations. Performance is quantified by the number of observations required to correctly classify the vehicle trajectory. Both the intersection traffic modeling computations and the classification procedure are timed. These times are presented as results and demonstrate that the model can be constructed in a reasonable amount of time and the classification procedure can be used for online applications. 

Title: Deep-Learning-based Automated Palm Tree Counting and Geolocation in Large Farms from Aerial Geotagged Images
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a deep learning framework for the automated counting and geolocation of palm trees from aerial images using convolutional neural networks. For this purpose, we collected aerial images in a palm tree Farm in the Kharj region, in Riyadh Saudi Arabia, using DJI drones, and we built a dataset of around 10,000 instances of palms trees. Then, we developed a convolutional neural network model using the state-of-the-art, Faster R-CNN algorithm. Furthermore, using the geotagged metadata of aerial images, we used photogrammetry concepts and distance corrections to detect the geographical location of detected palms trees automatically. This geolocation technique was tested on two different types of drones (DJI Mavic Pro, and Phantom 4 Pro), and was assessed to provide an average geolocation accuracy of 2.8m. This GPS tagging allows us to uniquely identify palm trees and count their number from a series of drone images, while correctly dealing with the issue of image overlapping. Moreover, it can be generalized to the geolocation of any other objects in UAV images. 

Title: Polylidar3D -- Fast Polygon Extraction from 3D Data
Abstract:  Flat surfaces captured by 3D point clouds are often used for localization, mapping, and modeling. Dense point cloud processing has high computation and memory costs making low-dimensional representations of flat surfaces such as polygons desirable. We present Polylidar3D, a non-convex polygon extraction algorithm which takes as input unorganized 3D point clouds (e.g., LiDAR data), organized point clouds (e.g., range images), or user-provided meshes. Non-convex polygons represent flat surfaces in an environment with interior cutouts representing obstacles or holes. The Polylidar3D front-end transforms input data into a half-edge triangular mesh. This representation provides a common level of input data abstraction for subsequent back-end processing. The Polylidar3D back-end is composed of four core algorithms: mesh smoothing, dominant plane normal estimation, planar segment extraction, and finally polygon extraction. Polylidar3D is shown to be quite fast, making use of CPU multi-threading and GPU acceleration when available. We demonstrate Polylidar3D's versatility and speed with real-world datasets including aerial LiDAR point clouds for rooftop mapping, autonomous driving LiDAR point clouds for road surface detection, and RGBD cameras for indoor floor/wall detection. We also evaluate Polylidar3D on a challenging planar segmentation benchmark dataset. Results consistently show excellent speed and accuracy. 

Title: Online Simultaneous Semi-Parametric Dynamics Model Learning
Abstract:  Accurate models of robots' dynamics are critical for control, stability, motion optimization, and interaction. Semi-Parametric approaches to dynamics learning combine physics-based Parametric models with unstructured Non-Parametric regression with the hope to achieve both accuracy and generalizablity. In this paper we highlight the non-stationary problem created when attempting to adapt both Parametric and Non-Parametric components simultaneously. We present a consistency transform designed to compensate for this non-stationary effect, such that the contributions of both models can adapt simultaneously without adversely affecting the performance of the platform. Thus we are able to apply the Semi-Parametric learning approach for continuous iterative online adaptation, without relying on batch or offline updates. We validate the transform via a perfect virtual model as well as by applying the overall system on a Kuka LWR IV manipulator. We demonstrate improved tracking performance during online learning and show a clear transference of contribution between the two components with a learning bias towards the Parametric component. 

Title: Generalized State-Dependent Exploration for Deep Reinforcement Learning in Robotics
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning (RL) enables robots to learn skills from interactions with the real world. In practice, the unstructured step-based exploration used in Deep RL -- often very successful in simulation -- leads to jerky motion patterns on real robots. Consequences of the resulting shaky behavior are poor exploration, or even damage to the robot. We address these issues by adapting state-dependent exploration (SDE) to current Deep RL algorithms. To enable this adaptation, we propose three extensions to the original SDE, which leads to a new exploration method generalized state-dependent exploration (gSDE). We evaluate gSDE both in simulation, on PyBullet continuous control tasks, and directly on a tendon-driven elastic robot. gSDE yields competitive results in simulation but outperforms the unstructured exploration on the real robot. The code is available at https://github.com/DLR-RM/stable-baselines3/tree/sde. 

Title: Shadow Detection: A Survey and Comparative Evaluation of Recent Methods
Abstract:  This paper presents a survey and a comparative evaluation of recent techniques for moving cast shadow detection. We identify shadow removal as a critical step for improving object detection and tracking. The survey covers methods published during the last decade, and places them in a feature-based taxonomy comprised of four categories: chromacity, physical, geometry and textures. A selection of prominent methods across the categories is compared in terms of quantitative performance measures (shadow detection and discrimination rates, colour desaturation) as well as qualitative observations. Furthermore, we propose the use of tracking performance as an unbiased approach for determining the practical usefulness of shadow detection methods. The evaluation indicates that all shadow detection approaches make different contributions and all have individual strength and weaknesses. Out of the selected methods, the geometry-based technique has strict assumptions and is not generalisable to various environments, but it is a straightforward choice when the objects of interest are easy to model and their shadows have different orientation. The chromacity based method is the fastest to implement and run, but it is sensitive to noise and less effective in low saturated scenes. The physical method improves upon the accuracy of the chromacity method by adapting to local shadow models, but fails when the spectral properties of the objects are similar to that of the background. The small-region texture based method is especially robust for pixels whose neighbourhood is textured, but may take longer to implement and is the most computationally expensive. The large-region texture based method produces the most accurate results, but has a significant computational load due to its multiple processing steps. 

Title: Concurrent Training Improves the Performance of Behavioral Cloning from Observation
Abstract:  Learning from demonstration is widely used as an efficient way for robots to acquire new skills. However, it typically requires that demonstrations provide full access to the state and action sequences. In contrast, learning from observation offers a way to utilize unlabeled demonstrations (e.g., video) to perform imitation learning. One approach to this is behavioral cloning from observation (BCO). The original implementation of BCO proceeds by first learning an inverse dynamics model and then using that model to estimate action labels, thereby reducing the problem to behavioral cloning. However, existing approaches to BCO require a large number of initial interactions in the first step. Here, we provide a novel theoretical analysis of BCO, introduce a modification BCO*, and show that in the semi-supervised setting, BCO* can concurrently improve both its estimate for the inverse dynamics model and the expert policy. This result allows us to eliminate the dependence on initial interactions and dramatically improve the sample complexity of BCO. We evaluate the effectiveness of our algorithm through experiments on various benchmark domains. The results demonstrate that concurrent training not only improves over the performance of BCO but also results in performance that is competitive with state-of-the-art imitation learning methods such as GAIL and Value-Dice. 

Title: One-Shot Imitation Filming of Human Motion Videos
Abstract:  Imitation learning has been applied to mimic the operation of a human cameraman in several autonomous cinematography systems. To imitate different filming styles, existing methods train multiple models, where each model handles a particular style and requires a significant number of training samples. As a result, existing methods can hardly generalize to unseen styles. In this paper, we propose a framework, which can imitate a filming style by "seeing" only a single demonstration video of the same style, i.e., one-shot imitation filming. This is done by two key enabling techniques: 1) feature extraction of the filming style from the demo video, and 2) filming style transfer from the demo video to the new situation. We implement the approach with deep neural network and deploy it to a 6 degrees of freedom (DOF) real drone cinematography system by first predicting the future camera motions, and then converting them to the drone's control commands via an odometer. Our experimental results on extensive datasets and showcases exhibit significant improvements in our approach over conventional baselines and our approach can successfully mimic the footage with an unseen style. 

Title: VisionNet: A Drivable-space-based Interactive Motion Prediction Network for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  The comprehension of environmental traffic situation largely ensures the driving safety of autonomous vehicles. Recently, the mission has been investigated by plenty of researches, while it is hard to be well addressed due to the limitation of collective influence in complex scenarios. These approaches model the interactions through the spatial relations between the target obstacle and its neighbors. However, they oversimplify the challenge since the training stage of the interactions lacks effective supervision. As a result, these models are far from promising. More intuitively, we transform the problem into calculating the interaction-aware drivable spaces and propose the CNN-based VisionNet for trajectory prediction. The VisionNet accepts a sequence of motion states, i.e., location, velocity, and acceleration, to estimate the future drivable spaces. The reified interactions significantly increase the interpretation ability of the VisionNet and refine the prediction. To further advance the performance, we propose an interactive loss to guide the generation of the drivable spaces. Experiments on multiple public datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed VisionNet. 

Title: Environment Probing Interaction Policies
Abstract:  A key challenge in reinforcement learning (RL) is environment generalization: a policy trained to solve a task in one environment often fails to solve the same task in a slightly different test environment. A common approach to improve inter-environment transfer is to learn policies that are invariant to the distribution of testing environments. However, we argue that instead of being invariant, the policy should identify the specific nuances of an environment and exploit them to achieve better performance. In this work, we propose the 'Environment-Probing' Interaction (EPI) policy, a policy that probes a new environment to extract an implicit understanding of that environment's behavior. Once this environment-specific information is obtained, it is used as an additional input to a task-specific policy that can now perform environment-conditioned actions to solve a task. To learn these EPI-policies, we present a reward function based on transition predictability. Specifically, a higher reward is given if the trajectory generated by the EPI-policy can be used to better predict transitions. We experimentally show that EPI-conditioned task-specific policies significantly outperform commonly used policy generalization methods on novel testing environments. 

Title: HomebrewedDB: RGB-D Dataset for 6D Pose Estimation of 3D Objects
Abstract:  Among the most important prerequisites for creating and evaluating 6D object pose detectors are datasets with labeled 6D poses. With the advent of deep learning, demand for such datasets is growing continuously. Despite the fact that some of exist, they are scarce and typically have restricted setups, such as a single object per sequence, or they focus on specific object types, such as textureless industrial parts. Besides, two significant components are often ignored: training using only available 3D models instead of real data and scalability, i.e. training one method to detect all objects rather than training one detector per object. Other challenges, such as occlusions, changing light conditions and changes in object appearance, as well precisely defined benchmarks are either not present or are scattered among different datasets. In this paper we present a dataset for 6D pose estimation that covers the above-mentioned challenges, mainly targeting training from 3D models (both textured and textureless), scalability, occlusions, and changes in light conditions and object appearance. The dataset features 33 objects (17 toy, 8 household and 8 industry-relevant objects) over 13 scenes of various difficulty. We also present a set of benchmarks to test various desired detector properties, particularly focusing on scalability with respect to the number of objects and resistance to changing light conditions, occlusions and clutter. We also set a baseline for the presented benchmarks using a state-of-the-art DPOD detector. Considering the difficulty of making such datasets, we plan to release the code allowing other researchers to extend this dataset or make their own datasets in the future. 

Title: Visual Appearance Analysis of Forest Scenes for Monocular SLAM
Abstract:  Monocular simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM) is a cheap and energy efficient way to enable Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to safely navigate managed forests and gather data crucial for monitoring tree health. SLAM research, however, has mostly been conducted in structured human environments, and as such is poorly adapted to unstructured forests. In this paper, we compare the performance of state of the art monocular SLAM systems on forest data and use visual appearance statistics to characterise the differences between forests and other environments, including a photorealistic simulated forest. We find that SLAM systems struggle with all but the most straightforward forest terrain and identify key attributes (lighting changes and in-scene motion) which distinguish forest scenes from "classic" urban datasets. These differences offer an insight into what makes forests harder to map and open the way for targeted improvements. We also demonstrate that even simulations that look impressive to the human eye can fail to properly reflect the difficult attributes of the environment they simulate, and provide suggestions for more closely mimicking natural scenes. 

Title: Multimodal Probabilistic Model-Based Planning for Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract:  This paper presents a method for constructing human-robot interaction policies in settings where multimodality, i.e., the possibility of multiple highly distinct futures, plays a critical role in decision making. We are motivated in this work by the example of traffic weaving, e.g., at highway on-ramps/off-ramps, where entering and exiting cars must swap lanes in a short distance---a challenging negotiation even for experienced drivers due to the inherent multimodal uncertainty of who will pass whom. Our approach is to learn multimodal probability distributions over future human actions from a dataset of human-human exemplars and perform real-time robot policy construction in the resulting environment model through massively parallel sampling of human responses to candidate robot action sequences. Direct learning of these distributions is made possible by recent advances in the theory of conditional variational autoencoders (CVAEs), whereby we learn action distributions simultaneously conditioned on the present interaction history, as well as candidate future robot actions in order to take into account response dynamics. We demonstrate the efficacy of this approach with a human-in-the-loop simulation of a traffic weaving scenario. 

Title: Attacking Vision-based Perception in End-to-End Autonomous Driving Models
Abstract:  Recent advances in machine learning, especially techniques such as deep neural networks, are enabling a range of emerging applications. One such example is autonomous driving, which often relies on deep learning for perception. However, deep learning-based perception has been shown to be vulnerable to a host of subtle adversarial manipulations of images. Nevertheless, the vast majority of such demonstrations focus on perception that is disembodied from end-to-end control. We present novel end-to-end attacks on autonomous driving in simulation, using simple physically realizable attacks: the painting of black lines on the road. These attacks target deep neural network models for end-to-end autonomous driving control. A systematic investigation shows that such attacks are easy to engineer, and we describe scenarios (e.g., right turns) in which they are highly effective. We define several objective functions that quantify the success of an attack and develop techniques based on Bayesian Optimization to efficiently traverse the search space of higher dimensional attacks. Additionally, we define a novel class of hijacking attacks, where painted lines on the road cause the driver-less car to follow a target path. Through the use of network deconvolution, we provide insights into the successful attacks, which appear to work by mimicking activations of entirely different scenarios. Our code is available at https://github.com/xz-group/AdverseDrive 

Title: Dimensionality Reduction and Motion Clustering during Activities of Daily Living: 3, 4, and 7 Degree-of-Freedom Arm Movements
Abstract:  The wide variety of motions performed by the human arm during daily tasks makes it desirable to find representative subsets to reduce the dimensionality of these movements for a variety of applications, including the design and control of robotic and prosthetic devices. This paper presents a novel method and the results of an extensive human subjects study to obtain representative arm joint angle trajectories that span naturalistic motions during Activities of Daily Living (ADLs). In particular, we seek to identify sets of useful motion trajectories of the upper limb that are functions of a single variable, allowing, for instance, an entire prosthetic or robotic arm to be controlled with a single input from a user, along with a means to select between motions for different tasks. Data driven approaches are used to obtain clusters as well as representative motion averages for the full-arm 7 degree of freedom (DOF), elbow-wrist 4 DOF, and wrist-only 3 DOF motions. The proposed method makes use of well-known techniques such as dynamic time warping (DTW) to obtain a divergence measure between motion segments, DTW barycenter averaging (DBA) to obtain averages, Ward's distance criterion to build hierarchical trees, batch-DTW to simultaneously align multiple motion data, and functional principal component analysis (fPCA) to evaluate cluster variability. The clusters that emerge associate various recorded motions into primarily hand start and end location for the full-arm system, motion direction for the wrist-only system, and an intermediate between the two qualities for the elbow-wrist system. The proposed clustering methodology is justified by comparing results against alternative approaches. 

Title: Multi-Goal Reinforcement Learning: Challenging Robotics Environments and Request for Research
Abstract:  The purpose of this technical report is two-fold. First of all, it introduces a suite of challenging continuous control tasks (integrated with OpenAI Gym) based on currently existing robotics hardware. The tasks include pushing, sliding and pick & place with a Fetch robotic arm as well as in-hand object manipulation with a Shadow Dexterous Hand. All tasks have sparse binary rewards and follow a Multi-Goal Reinforcement Learning (RL) framework in which an agent is told what to do using an additional input. The second part of the paper presents a set of concrete research ideas for improving RL algorithms, most of which are related to Multi-Goal RL and Hindsight Experience Replay. 

Title: Learning Local Feature Descriptor with Motion Attribute for Vision-based Localization
Abstract:  In recent years, camera-based localization has been widely used for robotic applications, and most proposed algorithms rely on local features extracted from recorded images. For better performance, the features used for open-loop localization are required to be short-term globally static, and the ones used for re-localization or loop closure detection need to be long-term static. Therefore, the motion attribute of a local feature point could be exploited to improve localization performance, e.g., the feature points extracted from moving persons or vehicles can be excluded from these systems due to their unsteadiness. In this paper, we design a fully convolutional network (FCN), named MD-Net, to perform motion attribute estimation and feature description simultaneously. MD-Net has a shared backbone network to extract features from the input image and two network branches to complete each sub-task. With MD-Net, we can obtain the motion attribute while avoiding increasing much more computation. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method can learn distinct local feature descriptor along with motion attribute only using an FCN, by outperforming competing methods by a wide margin. We also show that the proposed algorithm can be integrated into a vision-based localization algorithm to improve estimation accuracy significantly. 

Title: Neural probabilistic motor primitives for humanoid control
Abstract:  We focus on the problem of learning a single motor module that can flexibly express a range of behaviors for the control of high-dimensional physically simulated humanoids. To do this, we propose a motor architecture that has the general structure of an inverse model with a latent-variable bottleneck. We show that it is possible to train this model entirely offline to compress thousands of expert policies and learn a motor primitive embedding space. The trained neural probabilistic motor primitive system can perform one-shot imitation of whole-body humanoid behaviors, robustly mimicking unseen trajectories. Additionally, we demonstrate that it is also straightforward to train controllers to reuse the learned motor primitive space to solve tasks, and the resulting movements are relatively naturalistic. To support the training of our model, we compare two approaches for offline policy cloning, including an experience efficient method which we call linear feedback policy cloning. We encourage readers to view a supplementary video ( https://youtu.be/CaDEf-QcKwA ) summarizing our results. 

Title: Semi-parametric Topological Memory for Navigation
Abstract:  We introduce a new memory architecture for navigation in previously unseen environments, inspired by landmark-based navigation in animals. The proposed semi-parametric topological memory (SPTM) consists of a (non-parametric) graph with nodes corresponding to locations in the environment and a (parametric) deep network capable of retrieving nodes from the graph based on observations. The graph stores no metric information, only connectivity of locations corresponding to the nodes. We use SPTM as a planning module in a navigation system. Given only 5 minutes of footage of a previously unseen maze, an SPTM-based navigation agent can build a topological map of the environment and use it to confidently navigate towards goals. The average success rate of the SPTM agent in goal-directed navigation across test environments is higher than the best-performing baseline by a factor of three. A video of the agent is available at https://youtu.be/vRF7f4lhswo 

Title: Towards Autonomous Driving: a Multi-Modal 360$^{\circ}$ Perception Proposal
Abstract:  In this paper, a multi-modal 360$^{\circ}$ framework for 3D object detection and tracking for autonomous vehicles is presented. The process is divided into four main stages. First, images are fed into a CNN network to obtain instance segmentation of the surrounding road participants. Second, LiDAR-to-image association is performed for the estimated mask proposals. Then, the isolated points of every object are processed by a PointNet ensemble to compute their corresponding 3D bounding boxes and poses. Lastly, a tracking stage based on Unscented Kalman Filter is used to track the agents along time. The solution, based on a novel sensor fusion configuration, provides accurate and reliable road environment detection. A wide variety of tests of the system, deployed in an autonomous vehicle, have successfully assessed the suitability of the proposed perception stack in a real autonomous driving application. 

Title: Learning to Navigate in Complex Environments
Abstract:  Learning to navigate in complex environments with dynamic elements is an important milestone in developing AI agents. In this work we formulate the navigation question as a reinforcement learning problem and show that data efficiency and task performance can be dramatically improved by relying on additional auxiliary tasks leveraging multimodal sensory inputs. In particular we consider jointly learning the goal-driven reinforcement learning problem with auxiliary depth prediction and loop closure classification tasks. This approach can learn to navigate from raw sensory input in complicated 3D mazes, approaching human-level performance even under conditions where the goal location changes frequently. We provide detailed analysis of the agent behaviour, its ability to localise, and its network activity dynamics, showing that the agent implicitly learns key navigation abilities. 

Title: Safety-Aware Robot Damage Recovery Using Constrained Bayesian Optimization and Simulated Priors
Abstract:  The recently introduced Intelligent Trial-and-Error (IT&E) algorithm showed that robots can adapt to damage in a matter of a few trials. The success of this algorithm relies on two components: prior knowledge acquired through simulation with an intact robot, and Bayesian optimization (BO) that operates on-line, on the damaged robot. While IT&E leads to fast damage recovery, it does not incorporate any safety constraints that prevent the robot from attempting harmful behaviors. In this work, we address this limitation by replacing the BO component with a constrained BO procedure. We evaluate our approach on a simulated damaged humanoid robot that needs to crawl as fast as possible, while performing as few unsafe trials as possible. We compare our new "safety-aware IT&E" algorithm to IT&E and a multi-objective version of IT&E in which the safety constraints are dealt as separate objectives. Our results show that our algorithm outperforms the other approaches, both in crawling speed within the safe regions and number of unsafe trials. 

Title: Unbiasing Semantic Segmentation For Robot Perception using Synthetic Data Feature Transfer
Abstract:  Robot perception systems need to perform reliable image segmentation in real-time on noisy, raw perception data. State-of-the-art segmentation approaches use large CNN models and carefully constructed datasets; however, these models focus on accuracy at the cost of real-time inference. Furthermore, the standard semantic segmentation datasets are not large enough for training CNNs without augmentation and are not representative of noisy, uncurated robot perception data. We propose improving the performance of real-time segmentation frameworks on robot perception data by transferring features learned from synthetic segmentation data. We show that pretraining real-time segmentation architectures with synthetic segmentation data instead of ImageNet improves fine-tuning performance by reducing the bias learned in pretraining and closing the \textit{transfer gap} as a result. Our experiments show that our real-time robot perception models pretrained on synthetic data outperform those pretrained on ImageNet for every scale of fine-tuning data examined. Moreover, the degree to which synthetic pretraining outperforms ImageNet pretraining increases as the availability of robot data decreases, making our approach attractive for robotics domains where dataset collection is hard and/or expensive. 

Title: Improving the Accuracy of Stereo Visual Odometry Using Visual Illumination Estimation
Abstract:  In the absence of reliable and accurate GPS, visual odometry (VO) has emerged as an effective means of estimating the egomotion of robotic vehicles. Like any dead-reckoning technique, VO suffers from unbounded accumulation of drift error over time, but this accumulation can be limited by incorporating absolute orientation information from, for example, a sun sensor. In this paper, we leverage recent work on visual outdoor illumination estimation to show that estimation error in a stereo VO pipeline can be reduced by inferring the sun position from the same image stream used to compute VO, thereby gaining the benefits of sun sensing without requiring a dedicated sun sensor or the sun to be visible to the camera. We compare sun estimation methods based on hand-crafted visual cues and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and demonstrate our approach on a combined 7.8 km of urban driving from the popular KITTI dataset, achieving up to a 43% reduction in translational average root mean squared error (ARMSE) and a 59% reduction in final translational drift error compared to pure VO alone. 

Title: Habitat: A Platform for Embodied AI Research
Abstract:  We present Habitat, a platform for research in embodied artificial intelligence (AI). Habitat enables training embodied agents (virtual robots) in highly efficient photorealistic 3D simulation. Specifically, Habitat consists of: (i) Habitat-Sim: a flexible, high-performance 3D simulator with configurable agents, sensors, and generic 3D dataset handling. Habitat-Sim is fast -- when rendering a scene from Matterport3D, it achieves several thousand frames per second (fps) running single-threaded, and can reach over 10,000 fps multi-process on a single GPU. (ii) Habitat-API: a modular high-level library for end-to-end development of embodied AI algorithms -- defining tasks (e.g., navigation, instruction following, question answering), configuring, training, and benchmarking embodied agents. These large-scale engineering contributions enable us to answer scientific questions requiring experiments that were till now impracticable or 'merely' impractical. Specifically, in the context of point-goal navigation: (1) we revisit the comparison between learning and SLAM approaches from two recent works and find evidence for the opposite conclusion -- that learning outperforms SLAM if scaled to an order of magnitude more experience than previous investigations, and (2) we conduct the first cross-dataset generalization experiments {train, test} x {Matterport3D, Gibson} for multiple sensors {blind, RGB, RGBD, D} and find that only agents with depth (D) sensors generalize across datasets. We hope that our open-source platform and these findings will advance research in embodied AI. 

Title: Reinforcement and Imitation Learning for Diverse Visuomotor Skills
Abstract:  We propose a model-free deep reinforcement learning method that leverages a small amount of demonstration data to assist a reinforcement learning agent. We apply this approach to robotic manipulation tasks and train end-to-end visuomotor policies that map directly from RGB camera inputs to joint velocities. We demonstrate that our approach can solve a wide variety of visuomotor tasks, for which engineering a scripted controller would be laborious. In experiments, our reinforcement and imitation agent achieves significantly better performances than agents trained with reinforcement learning or imitation learning alone. We also illustrate that these policies, trained with large visual and dynamics variations, can achieve preliminary successes in zero-shot sim2real transfer. A brief visual description of this work can be viewed in https://youtu.be/EDl8SQUNjj0 

Title: Federated Learning in the Sky: Joint Power Allocation and Scheduling with UAV Swarms
Abstract:  Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) swarms must exploit machine learning (ML) in order to execute various tasks ranging from coordinated trajectory planning to cooperative target recognition. However, due to the lack of continuous connections between the UAV swarm and ground base stations (BSs), using centralized ML will be challenging, particularly when dealing with a large volume of data. In this paper, a novel framework is proposed to implement distributed federated learning (FL) algorithms within a UAV swarm that consists of a leading UAV and several following UAVs. Each following UAV trains a local FL model based on its collected data and then sends this trained local model to the leading UAV who will aggregate the received models, generate a global FL model, and transmit it to followers over the intra-swarm network. To identify how wireless factors, like fading, transmission delay, and UAV antenna angle deviations resulting from wind and mechanical vibrations, impact the performance of FL, a rigorous convergence analysis for FL is performed. Then, a joint power allocation and scheduling design is proposed to optimize the convergence rate of FL while taking into account the energy consumption during convergence and the delay requirement imposed by the swarm's control system. Simulation results validate the effectiveness of the FL convergence analysis and show that the joint design strategy can reduce the number of communication rounds needed for convergence by as much as 35% compared with the baseline design. 

Title: Forecasting Pedestrian Trajectory with Machine-Annotated Training Data
Abstract:  Reliable anticipation of pedestrian trajectory is imperative for the operation of autonomous vehicles and can significantly enhance the functionality of advanced driver assistance systems. While significant progress has been made in the field of pedestrian detection, forecasting pedestrian trajectories remains a challenging problem due to the unpredictable nature of pedestrians and the huge space of potentially useful features. In this work, we present a deep learning approach for pedestrian trajectory forecasting using a single vehicle-mounted camera. Deep learning models that have revolutionized other areas in computer vision have seen limited application to trajectory forecasting, in part due to the lack of richly annotated training data. We address the lack of training data by introducing a scalable machine annotation scheme that enables our model to be trained using a large dataset without human annotation. In addition, we propose Dynamic Trajectory Predictor (DTP), a model for forecasting pedestrian trajectory up to one second into the future. DTP is trained using both human and machine-annotated data, and anticipates dynamic motion that is not captured by linear models. Experimental evaluation confirms the benefits of the proposed model. 

Title: Uncertainty-Aware Data Aggregation for Deep Imitation Learning
Abstract:  Estimating statistical uncertainties allows autonomous agents to communicate their confidence during task execution and is important for applications in safety-critical domains such as autonomous driving. In this work, we present the uncertainty-aware imitation learning (UAIL) algorithm for improving end-to-end control systems via data aggregation. UAIL applies Monte Carlo Dropout to estimate uncertainty in the control output of end-to-end systems, using states where it is uncertain to selectively acquire new training data. In contrast to prior data aggregation algorithms that force human experts to visit sub-optimal states at random, UAIL can anticipate its own mistakes and switch control to the expert in order to prevent visiting a series of sub-optimal states. Our experimental results from simulated driving tasks demonstrate that our proposed uncertainty estimation method can be leveraged to reliably predict infractions. Our analysis shows that UAIL outperforms existing data aggregation algorithms on a series of benchmark tasks. 

Title: BatVision: Learning to See 3D Spatial Layout with Two Ears
Abstract:  Many species have evolved advanced non-visual perception while artificial systems fall behind. Radar and ultrasound complement camera-based vision but they are often too costly and complex to set up for very limited information gain. In nature, sound is used effectively by bats, dolphins, whales, and humans for navigation and communication. However, it is unclear how to best harness sound for machine perception. Inspired by bats' echolocation mechanism, we design a low-cost BatVision system that is capable of seeing the 3D spatial layout of space ahead by just listening with two ears. Our system emits short chirps from a speaker and records returning echoes through microphones in an artificial human pinnae pair. During training, we additionally use a stereo camera to capture color images for calculating scene depths. We train a model to predict depth maps and even grayscale images from the sound alone. During testing, our trained BatVision provides surprisingly good predictions of 2D visual scenes from two 1D audio signals. Such a sound to vision system would benefit robot navigation and machine vision, especially in low-light or no-light conditions. Our code and data are publicly available. 

Title: Continuous hand-eye calibration using 3D points
Abstract:  The recent development of calibration algorithms has been driven into two major directions: (1) an increasing accuracy of mathematical approaches and (2) an increasing flexibility in usage by reducing the dependency on calibration objects. These two trends, however, seem to be contradictory since the overall accuracy is directly related to the accuracy of the pose estimation of the calibration object and therefore demanding large objects, while an increased flexibility leads to smaller objects or noisier estimation methods. The method presented in this paper aims to resolves this problem in two steps: First, we derive a simple closed-form solution with a shifted focus towards the equation of translation that only solves for the necessary hand-eye transformation. We show that it is superior in accuracy and robustness compared to traditional approaches. Second, we decrease the dependency on the calibration object to a single 3D-point by using a similar formulation based on the equation of translation which is much less affected by the estimation error of the calibration object's orientation. Moreover, it makes the estimation of the orientation obsolete while taking advantage of the higher accuracy and robustness from the first solution, resulting in a versatile method for continuous hand-eye calibration. 

Title: Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning for Concurrent Discovery of Compound and Composable Policies
Abstract:  A common strategy to deal with the expensive reinforcement learning (RL) of complex tasks is to decompose them into a collection of subtasks that are usually simpler to learn as well as reusable for new problems. However, when a robot learns the policies for these subtasks, common approaches treat every policy learning process separately. Therefore, all these individual (composable) policies need to be learned before tackling the learning process of the complex task through policies composition. Moreover, such composition of individual policies is usually performed sequentially, which is not suitable for tasks that require to perform the subtasks concurrently. In this paper, we propose to combine a set of composable Gaussian policies corresponding to these subtasks using a set of activation vectors, resulting in a complex Gaussian policy that is a function of the means and covariances matrices of the composable policies. Moreover, we propose an algorithm for learning both compound and composable policies within the same learning process by exploiting the off-policy data generated from the compound policy. The algorithm is built on a maximum entropy RL approach to favor exploration during the learning process. The results of the experiments show that the experience collected with the compound policy permits not only to solve the complex task but also to obtain useful composable policies that successfully perform in their corresponding subtasks. 

Title: Top-down and Bottom-up Feature Combination for Multi-sensor Attentive Robots
Abstract:  The information available to robots in real tasks is widely distributed both in time and space, requiring the agent to search for relevant data. In humans, that face the same problem when sounds, images and smells are presented to their sensors in a daily scene, a natural system is applied: Attention. As vision plays an important role in our routine, most research regarding attention has involved this sensorial system and the same has been replicated to the robotics field. However,most of the robotics tasks nowadays do not rely only in visual data, that are still costly. To allow the use of attentive concepts with other robotics sensors that are usually used in tasks such as navigation, self-localization, searching and mapping, a generic attentional model has been previously proposed. In this work, feature mapping functions were designed to build feature maps to this attentive model from data from range scanner and sonar sensors. Experiments were performed in a high fidelity simulated robotics environment and results have demonstrated the capability of the model on dealing with both salient stimuli and goal-driven attention over multiple features extracted from multiple sensors. 

Title: Mid-flight Propeller Failure Detection and Control of Propeller-deficient Quadcopter using Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Quadcopters can suffer from loss of propellers in mid-flight, thus requiring a need to have a system that detects single and multiple propeller failures and an adaptive controller that stabilizes the propeller-deficient quadcopter. This paper presents reinforcement learning based controllers for quadcopters with 4, 3, and 2 (opposing) functional propellers. The paper also proposes a neural network based propeller fault detection system to detect propeller loss and switch to the appropriate controller. The simulation results demonstrate a stable quadcopter with efficient waypoint tracking for all controllers. The detection system is able to detect propeller failure in a short time and stabilize the quadcopter. 

Title: One-Shot Reinforcement Learning for Robot Navigation with Interactive Replay
Abstract:  Recently, model-free reinforcement learning algorithms have been shown to solve challenging problems by learning from extensive interaction with the environment. A significant issue with transferring this success to the robotics domain is that interaction with the real world is costly, but training on limited experience is prone to overfitting. We present a method for learning to navigate, to a fixed goal and in a known environment, on a mobile robot. The robot leverages an interactive world model built from a single traversal of the environment, a pre-trained visual feature encoder, and stochastic environmental augmentation, to demonstrate successful zero-shot transfer under real-world environmental variations without fine-tuning. 

Title: Zero-Shot Visual Imitation
Abstract:  The current dominant paradigm for imitation learning relies on strong supervision of expert actions to learn both 'what' and 'how' to imitate. We pursue an alternative paradigm wherein an agent first explores the world without any expert supervision and then distills its experience into a goal-conditioned skill policy with a novel forward consistency loss. In our framework, the role of the expert is only to communicate the goals (i.e., what to imitate) during inference. The learned policy is then employed to mimic the expert (i.e., how to imitate) after seeing just a sequence of images demonstrating the desired task. Our method is 'zero-shot' in the sense that the agent never has access to expert actions during training or for the task demonstration at inference. We evaluate our zero-shot imitator in two real-world settings: complex rope manipulation with a Baxter robot and navigation in previously unseen office environments with a TurtleBot. Through further experiments in VizDoom simulation, we provide evidence that better mechanisms for exploration lead to learning a more capable policy which in turn improves end task performance. Videos, models, and more details are available at https://pathak22.github.io/zeroshot-imitation/ 

Title: Dense Object Nets: Learning Dense Visual Object Descriptors By and For Robotic Manipulation
Abstract:  What is the right object representation for manipulation? We would like robots to visually perceive scenes and learn an understanding of the objects in them that (i) is task-agnostic and can be used as a building block for a variety of manipulation tasks, (ii) is generally applicable to both rigid and non-rigid objects, (iii) takes advantage of the strong priors provided by 3D vision, and (iv) is entirely learned from self-supervision. This is hard to achieve with previous methods: much recent work in grasping does not extend to grasping specific objects or other tasks, whereas task-specific learning may require many trials to generalize well across object configurations or other tasks. In this paper we present Dense Object Nets, which build on recent developments in self-supervised dense descriptor learning, as a consistent object representation for visual understanding and manipulation. We demonstrate they can be trained quickly (approximately 20 minutes) for a wide variety of previously unseen and potentially non-rigid objects. We additionally present novel contributions to enable multi-object descriptor learning, and show that by modifying our training procedure, we can either acquire descriptors which generalize across classes of objects, or descriptors that are distinct for each object instance. Finally, we demonstrate the novel application of learned dense descriptors to robotic manipulation. We demonstrate grasping of specific points on an object across potentially deformed object configurations, and demonstrate using class general descriptors to transfer specific grasps across objects in a class. 

Title: Enabling Depth-driven Visual Attention on the iCub Humanoid Robot: Instructions for Use and New Perspectives
Abstract:  The importance of depth perception in the interactions that humans have within their nearby space is a well established fact. Consequently, it is also well known that the possibility of exploiting good stereo information would ease and, in many cases, enable, a large variety of attentional and interactive behaviors on humanoid robotic platforms. However, the difficulty of computing real-time and robust binocular disparity maps from moving stereo cameras often prevents from relying on this kind of cue to visually guide robots' attention and actions in real-world scenarios. The contribution of this paper is two-fold: first, we show that the Efficient Large-scale Stereo Matching algorithm (ELAS) by A. Geiger et al. 2010 for computation of the disparity map is well suited to be used on a humanoid robotic platform as the iCub robot; second, we show how, provided with a fast and reliable stereo system, implementing relatively challenging visual behaviors in natural settings can require much less effort. As a case of study we consider the common situation where the robot is asked to focus the attention on one object close in the scene, showing how a simple but effective disparity-based segmentation solves the problem in this case. Indeed this example paves the way to a variety of other similar applications. 

Title: Training an Interactive Humanoid Robot Using Multimodal Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Training robots to perceive, act and communicate using multiple modalities still represents a challenging problem, particularly if robots are expected to learn efficiently from small sets of example interactions. We describe a learning approach as a step in this direction, where we teach a humanoid robot how to play the game of noughts and crosses. Given that multiple multimodal skills can be trained to play this game, we focus our attention to training the robot to perceive the game, and to interact in this game. Our multimodal deep reinforcement learning agent perceives multimodal features and exhibits verbal and non-verbal actions while playing. Experimental results using simulations show that the robot can learn to win or draw up to 98% of the games. A pilot test of the proposed multimodal system for the targeted game---integrating speech, vision and gestures---reports that reasonable and fluent interactions can be achieved using the proposed approach. 

Title: Discovery and usage of joint attention in images
Abstract:  Joint visual attention is characterized by two or more individuals looking at a common target at the same time. The ability to identify joint attention in scenes, the people involved, and their common target, is fundamental to the understanding of social interactions, including others' intentions and goals. In this work we deal with the extraction of joint attention events, and the use of such events for image descriptions. The work makes two novel contributions. First, our extraction algorithm is the first which identifies joint visual attention in single static images. It computes 3D gaze direction, identifies the gaze target by combining gaze direction with a 3D depth map computed for the image, and identifies the common gaze target. Second, we use a human study to demonstrate the sensitivity of humans to joint attention, suggesting that the detection of such a configuration in an image can be useful for understanding the image, including the goals of the agents and their joint activity, and therefore can contribute to image captioning and related tasks. 

Title: Zero-shot Deep Reinforcement Learning Driving Policy Transfer for Autonomous Vehicles based on Robust Control
Abstract:  Although deep reinforcement learning (deep RL) methods have lots of strengths that are favorable if applied to autonomous driving, real deep RL applications in autonomous driving have been slowed down by the modeling gap between the source (training) domain and the target (deployment) domain. Unlike current policy transfer approaches, which generally limit to the usage of uninterpretable neural network representations as the transferred features, we propose to transfer concrete kinematic quantities in autonomous driving. The proposed robust-control-based (RC) generic transfer architecture, which we call RL-RC, incorporates a transferable hierarchical RL trajectory planner and a robust tracking controller based on disturbance observer (DOB). The deep RL policies trained with known nominal dynamics model are transfered directly to the target domain, DOB-based robust tracking control is applied to tackle the modeling gap including the vehicle dynamics errors and the external disturbances such as side forces. We provide simulations validating the capability of the proposed method to achieve zero-shot transfer across multiple driving scenarios such as lane keeping, lane changing and obstacle avoidance. 

Title: Zero-Shot Skill Composition and Simulation-to-Real Transfer by Learning Task Representations
Abstract:  Simulation-to-real transfer is an important strategy for making reinforcement learning practical with real robots. Successful sim-to-real transfer systems have difficulty producing policies which generalize across tasks, despite training for thousands of hours equivalent real robot time. To address this shortcoming, we present a novel approach to efficiently learning new robotic skills directly on a real robot, based on model-predictive control (MPC) and an algorithm for learning task representations. In short, we show how to reuse the simulation from the pre-training step of sim-to-real methods as a tool for foresight, allowing the sim-to-real policy adapt to unseen tasks. Rather than end-to-end learning policies for single tasks and attempting to transfer them, we first use simulation to simultaneously learn (1) a continuous parameterization (i.e. a skill embedding or latent) of task-appropriate primitive skills, and (2) a single policy for these skills which is conditioned on this representation. We then directly transfer our multi-skill policy to a real robot, and actuate the robot by choosing sequences of skill latents which actuate the policy, with each latent corresponding to a pre-learned primitive skill controller. We complete unseen tasks by choosing new sequences of skill latents to control the robot using MPC, where our MPC model is composed of the pre-trained skill policy executed in the simulation environment, run in parallel with the real robot. We discuss the background and principles of our method, detail its practical implementation, and evaluate its performance by using our method to train a real Sawyer Robot to achieve motion tasks such as drawing and block pushing. 

Title: The TUM VI Benchmark for Evaluating Visual-Inertial Odometry
Abstract:  Visual odometry and SLAM methods have a large variety of applications in domains such as augmented reality or robotics. Complementing vision sensors with inertial measurements tremendously improves tracking accuracy and robustness, and thus has spawned large interest in the development of visual-inertial (VI) odometry approaches. In this paper, we propose the TUM VI benchmark, a novel dataset with a diverse set of sequences in different scenes for evaluating VI odometry. It provides camera images with 1024x1024 resolution at 20 Hz, high dynamic range and photometric calibration. An IMU measures accelerations and angular velocities on 3 axes at 200 Hz, while the cameras and IMU sensors are time-synchronized in hardware. For trajectory evaluation, we also provide accurate pose ground truth from a motion capture system at high frequency (120 Hz) at the start and end of the sequences which we accurately aligned with the camera and IMU measurements. The full dataset with raw and calibrated data is publicly available. We also evaluate state-of-the-art VI odometry approaches on our dataset. 

Title: Control Synthesis from Linear Temporal Logic Specifications using Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  We present a reinforcement learning (RL) framework to synthesize a control policy from a given linear temporal logic (LTL) specification in an unknown stochastic environment that can be modeled as a Markov Decision Process (MDP). Specifically, we learn a policy that maximizes the probability of satisfying the LTL formula without learning the transition probabilities. We introduce a novel rewarding and path-dependent discounting mechanism based on the LTL formula such that (i) an optimal policy maximizing the total discounted reward effectively maximizes the probabilities of satisfying LTL objectives, and (ii) a model-free RL algorithm using these rewards and discount factors is guaranteed to converge to such policy. Finally, we illustrate the applicability of our RL-based synthesis approach on two motion planning case studies. 

Title: Longitudinal Dynamic versus Kinematic Models for Car-Following Control Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  The majority of current studies on autonomous vehicle control via deep reinforcement learning (DRL) utilize point-mass kinematic models, neglecting vehicle dynamics which includes acceleration delay and acceleration command dynamics. The acceleration delay, which results from sensing and actuation delays, results in delayed execution of the control inputs. The acceleration command dynamics dictates that the actual vehicle acceleration does not rise up to the desired command acceleration instantaneously due to dynamics. In this work, we investigate the feasibility of applying DRL controllers trained using vehicle kinematic models to more realistic driving control with vehicle dynamics. We consider a particular longitudinal car-following control, i.e., Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC), problem solved via DRL using a point-mass kinematic model. When such a controller is applied to car following with vehicle dynamics, we observe significantly degraded car-following performance. Therefore, we redesign the DRL framework to accommodate the acceleration delay and acceleration command dynamics by adding the delayed control inputs and the actual vehicle acceleration to the reinforcement learning environment state, respectively. The training results show that the redesigned DRL controller results in near-optimal control performance of car following with vehicle dynamics considered when compared with dynamic programming solutions. 

Title: Embodied Language Grounding with Implicit 3D Visual Feature Representations
Abstract:  Consider the utterance "the tomato is to the left of the pot." Humans can answer numerous questions about the situation described, as well as reason through counterfactuals and alternatives, such as, "is the pot larger than the tomato ?", "can we move to a viewpoint from which the tomato is completely hidden behind the pot ?", "can we have an object that is both to the left of the tomato and to the right of the pot ?", "would the tomato fit inside the pot ?", and so on. Such reasoning capability remains elusive from current computational models of language understanding. To link language processing with spatial reasoning, we propose associating natural language utterances to a mental workspace of their meaning, encoded as 3-dimensional visual feature representations of the world scenes they describe. We learn such 3-dimensional visual representations---we call them visual imaginations--- by predicting images a mobile agent sees while moving around in the 3D world. The input image streams the agent collects are unprojected into egomotion-stable 3D scene feature maps of the scene, and projected from novel viewpoints to match the observed RGB image views in an end-to-end differentiable manner. We then train modular neural models to generate such 3D feature representations given language utterances, to localize the objects an utterance mentions in the 3D feature representation inferred from an image, and to predict the desired 3D object locations given a manipulation instruction. We empirically show the proposed models outperform by a large margin existing 2D models in spatial reasoning, referential object detection and instruction following, and generalize better across camera viewpoints and object arrangements. 

Title: Taming an autonomous surface vehicle for path following and collision avoidance using deep reinforcement learning
Abstract:  In this article, we explore the feasibility of applying proximal policy optimization, a state-of-the-art deep reinforcement learning algorithm for continuous control tasks, on the dual-objective problem of controlling an underactuated autonomous surface vehicle to follow an a priori known path while avoiding collisions with non-moving obstacles along the way. The artificial intelligent agent, which is equipped with multiple rangefinder sensors for obstacle detection, is trained and evaluated in a challenging, stochastically generated simulation environment based on the OpenAI gym python toolkit. Notably, the agent is provided with real-time insight into its own reward function, allowing it to dynamically adapt its guidance strategy. Depending on its strategy, which ranges from radical path-adherence to radical obstacle avoidance, the trained agent achieves an episodic success rate between 84 and 100%. 

Title: Improvisation through Physical Understanding: Using Novel Objects as Tools with Visual Foresight
Abstract:  Machine learning techniques have enabled robots to learn narrow, yet complex tasks and also perform broad, yet simple skills with a wide variety of objects. However, learning a model that can both perform complex tasks and generalize to previously unseen objects and goals remains a significant challenge. We study this challenge in the context of "improvisational" tool use: a robot is presented with novel objects and a user-specified goal (e.g., sweep some clutter into the dustpan), and must figure out, using only raw image observations, how to accomplish the goal using the available objects as tools. We approach this problem by training a model with both a visual and physical understanding of multi-object interactions, and develop a sampling-based optimizer that can leverage these interactions to accomplish tasks. We do so by combining diverse demonstration data with self-supervised interaction data, aiming to leverage the interaction data to build generalizable models and the demonstration data to guide the model-based RL planner to solve complex tasks. Our experiments show that our approach can solve a variety of complex tool use tasks from raw pixel inputs, outperforming both imitation learning and self-supervised learning individually. Furthermore, we show that the robot can perceive and use novel objects as tools, including objects that are not conventional tools, while also choosing dynamically to use or not use tools depending on whether or not they are required. 

Title: Robust Reinforcement Learning using Adversarial Populations
Abstract:  Reinforcement Learning (RL) is an effective tool for controller design but can struggle with issues of robustness, failing catastrophically when the underlying system dynamics are perturbed. The Robust RL formulation tackles this by adding worst-case adversarial noise to the dynamics and constructing the noise distribution as the solution to a zero-sum minimax game. However, existing work on learning solutions to the Robust RL formulation has primarily focused on training a single RL agent against a single adversary. In this work, we demonstrate that using a single adversary does not consistently yield robustness to dynamics variations under standard parametrizations of the adversary; the resulting policy is highly exploitable by new adversaries. We propose a population-based augmentation to the Robust RL formulation in which we randomly initialize a population of adversaries and sample from the population uniformly during training. We empirically validate across robotics benchmarks that the use of an adversarial population results in a more robust policy that also improves out-of-distribution generalization. Finally, we demonstrate that this approach provides comparable robustness and generalization as domain randomization on these benchmarks while avoiding a ubiquitous domain randomization failure mode. 

Title: A memory of motion for visual predictive control tasks
Abstract:  This paper addresses the problem of efficiently achieving visual predictive control tasks. To this end, a memory of motion, containing a set of trajectories built off-line, is used for leveraging precomputation and dealing with difficult visual tasks. Standard regression techniques, such as k-nearest neighbors and Gaussian process regression, are used to query the memory and provide on-line a warm-start and a way point to the control optimization process. The proposed technique allows the control scheme to achieve high performance and, at the same time, keep the computational time limited. Simulation and experimental results, carried out with a 7-axis manipulator, show the effectiveness of the approach. 

Title: Unsupervised Emergence of Egocentric Spatial Structure from Sensorimotor Prediction
Abstract:  Despite its omnipresence in robotics application, the nature of spatial knowledge and the mechanisms that underlie its emergence in autonomous agents are still poorly understood. Recent theoretical works suggest that the Euclidean structure of space induces invariants in an agent's raw sensorimotor experience. We hypothesize that capturing these invariants is beneficial for sensorimotor prediction and that, under certain exploratory conditions, a motor representation capturing the structure of the external space should emerge as a byproduct of learning to predict future sensory experiences. We propose a simple sensorimotor predictive scheme, apply it to different agents and types of exploration, and evaluate the pertinence of these hypotheses. We show that a naive agent can capture the topology and metric regularity of its sensor's position in an egocentric spatial frame without any a priori knowledge, nor extraneous supervision. 

Title: Active Preference Learning using Maximum Regret
Abstract:  We study active preference learning as a framework for intuitively specifying the behaviour of autonomous robots. In active preference learning, a user chooses the preferred behaviour from a set of alternatives, from which the robot learns the user's preferences, modeled as a parameterized cost function. Previous approaches present users with alternatives that minimize the uncertainty over the parameters of the cost function. However, different parameters might lead to the same optimal behaviour; as a consequence the solution space is more structured than the parameter space. We exploit this by proposing a query selection that greedily reduces the maximum error ratio over the solution space. In simulations we demonstrate that the proposed approach outperforms other state of the art techniques in both learning efficiency and ease of queries for the user. Finally, we show that evaluating the learning based on the similarities of solutions instead of the similarities of weights allows for better predictions for different scenarios. 

Title: Improving Input-Output Linearizing Controllers for Bipedal Robots via Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  The main drawbacks of input-output linearizing controllers are the need for precise dynamics models and not being able to account for input constraints. Model uncertainty is common in almost every robotic application and input saturation is present in every real world system. In this paper, we address both challenges for the specific case of bipedal robot control by the use of reinforcement learning techniques. Taking the structure of a standard input-output linearizing controller, we use an additive learned term that compensates for model uncertainty. Moreover, by adding constraints to the learning problem we manage to boost the performance of the final controller when input limits are present. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the designed framework for different levels of uncertainty on the five-link planar walking robot RABBIT. 

Title: Maximum Entropy Multi-Task Inverse RL
Abstract:  Multi-task IRL allows for the possibility that the expert could be switching between multiple ways of solving the same problem, or interleaving demonstrations of multiple tasks. The learner aims to learn the multiple reward functions that guide these ways of solving the problem. We present a new method for multi-task IRL that generalizes the well-known maximum entropy approach to IRL by combining it with the Dirichlet process based clustering of the observed input. This yields a single nonlinear optimization problem, called MaxEnt Multi-task IRL, which can be solved using the Lagrangian relaxation and gradient descent methods. We evaluate MaxEnt Multi-task IRL in simulation on the robotic task of sorting onions on a processing line where the expert utilizes multiple ways of detecting and removing blemished onions. The method is able to learn the underlying reward functions to a high level of accuracy and it improves on the previous approaches to multi-task IRL. 

Title: Long-Term Urban Vehicle Localization Using Pole Landmarks Extracted from 3-D Lidar Scans
Abstract:  Due to their ubiquity and long-term stability, pole-like objects are well suited to serve as landmarks for vehicle localization in urban environments. In this work, we present a complete mapping and long-term localization system based on pole landmarks extracted from 3-D lidar data. Our approach features a novel pole detector, a mapping module, and an online localization module, each of which are described in detail, and for which we provide an open-source implementation at www.github.com/acschaefer/polex. In extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our method improves on the state of the art with respect to long-term reliability and accuracy: First, we prove reliability by tasking the system with localizing a mobile robot over the course of 15~months in an urban area based on an initial map, confronting it with constantly varying routes, differing weather conditions, seasonal changes, and construction sites. Second, we show that the proposed approach clearly outperforms a recently published method in terms of accuracy. 

Title: GP-Localize: Persistent Mobile Robot Localization using Online Sparse Gaussian Process Observation Model
Abstract:  Central to robot exploration and mapping is the task of persistent localization in environmental fields characterized by spatially correlated measurements. This paper presents a Gaussian process localization (GP-Localize) algorithm that, in contrast to existing works, can exploit the spatially correlated field measurements taken during a robot's exploration (instead of relying on prior training data) for efficiently and scalably learning the GP observation model online through our proposed novel online sparse GP. As a result, GP-Localize is capable of achieving constant time and memory (i.e., independent of the size of the data) per filtering step, which demonstrates the practical feasibility of using GPs for persistent robot localization and autonomy. Empirical evaluation via simulated experiments with real-world datasets and a real robot experiment shows that GP-Localize outperforms existing GP localization algorithms. 

Title: Evaluation of Surrogate Models for Multi-fin Flapping Propulsion Systems
Abstract:  The aim of this study is to develop surrogate models for quick, accurate prediction of thrust forces generated through flapping fin propulsion for given operating conditions and fin geometries. Different network architectures and configurations are explored to model the training data separately for the lead fin and rear fin of a tandem fin setup. We progressively improve the data representation of the input parameter space for model predictions. The models are tested on three unseen fin geometries and the predictions validated with computational fluid dynamics (CFD) data. Finally, the orders of magnitude gains in computational performance of these surrogate models, compared to experimental and CFD runs, vs their tradeoff with accuracy is discussed within the context of this tandem fin configuration. 

Title: Training a Convolutional Neural Network for Appearance-Invariant Place Recognition
Abstract:  Place recognition is one of the most challenging problems in computer vision, and has become a key part in mobile robotics and autonomous driving applications for performing loop closure in visual SLAM systems. Moreover, the difficulty of recognizing a revisited location increases with appearance changes caused, for instance, by weather or illumination variations, which hinders the long-term application of such algorithms in real environments. In this paper we present a convolutional neural network (CNN), trained for the first time with the purpose of recognizing revisited locations under severe appearance changes, which maps images to a low dimensional space where Euclidean distances represent place dissimilarity. In order for the network to learn the desired invariances, we train it with triplets of images selected from datasets which present a challenging variability in visual appearance. The triplets are selected in such way that two samples are from the same location and the third one is taken from a different place. We validate our system through extensive experimentation, where we demonstrate better performance than state-of-art algorithms in a number of popular datasets. 

Title: Probably Approximately Correct Vision-Based Planning using Motion Primitives
Abstract:  This paper presents a deep reinforcement learning approach for synthesizing vision-based planners that provably generalize to novel environments (i.e., environments unseen during training). We leverage the Probably Approximately Correct (PAC)-Bayes framework to obtain an upper bound on the expected cost of policies across all environments. Minimizing the PAC-Bayes upper bound thus trains policies that are accompanied by a certificate of performance on novel environments. The training pipeline we propose provides strong generalization guarantees for deep neural network policies by (a) obtaining a good prior distribution on the space of policies using Evolutionary Strategies (ES) followed by (b) formulating the PAC-Bayes optimization as an efficiently-solvable parametric convex optimization problem. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach for producing strong generalization guarantees for learned vision-based motion planners through two simulated examples: (1) an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) navigating obstacle fields with an onboard vision sensor, and (2) a dynamic quadrupedal robot traversing rough terrains with proprioceptive and exteroceptive sensors. 

Title: End-to-end Contextual Perception and Prediction with Interaction Transformer
Abstract:  In this paper, we tackle the problem of detecting objects in 3D and forecasting their future motion in the context of self-driving. Towards this goal, we design a novel approach that explicitly takes into account the interactions between actors. To capture their spatial-temporal dependencies, we propose a recurrent neural network with a novel Transformer architecture, which we call the Interaction Transformer. Importantly, our model can be trained end-to-end, and runs in real-time. We validate our approach on two challenging real-world datasets: ATG4D and nuScenes. We show that our approach can outperform the state-of-the-art on both datasets. In particular, we significantly improve the social compliance between the estimated future trajectories, resulting in far fewer collisions between the predicted actors. 

Title: Analytical Modeling of Vanishing Points and Curves in Catadioptric Cameras
Abstract:  Vanishing points and vanishing lines are classical geometrical concepts in perspective cameras that have a lineage dating back to 3 centuries. A vanishing point is a point on the image plane where parallel lines in 3D space appear to converge, whereas a vanishing line passes through 2 or more vanishing points. While such concepts are simple and intuitive in perspective cameras, their counterparts in catadioptric cameras (obtained using mirrors and lenses) are more involved. For example, lines in the 3D space map to higher degree curves in catadioptric cameras. The projection of a set of 3D parallel lines converges on a single point in perspective images, whereas they converge to more than one point in catadioptric cameras. To the best of our knowledge, we are not aware of any systematic development of analytical models for vanishing points and vanishing curves in different types of catadioptric cameras. In this paper, we derive parametric equations for vanishing points and vanishing curves using the calibration parameters, mirror shape coefficients, and direction vectors of parallel lines in 3D space. We show compelling experimental results on vanishing point estimation and absolute pose estimation for a wide range of catadioptric cameras in both simulations and real experiments. 

Title: Task-Independent Spiking Central Pattern Generator: A Learning-Based Approach
Abstract:  Legged locomotion is a challenging task in the field of robotics but a rather simple one in nature. This motivates the use of biological methodologies as solutions to this problem. Central pattern generators are neural networks that are thought to be responsible for locomotion in humans and some animal species. As for robotics, many attempts were made to reproduce such systems and use them for a similar goal. One interesting design model is based on spiking neural networks. This model is the main focus of this work, as its contribution is not limited to engineering but also applicable to neuroscience. This paper introduces a new general framework for building central pattern generators that are task-independent, biologically plausible, and rely on learning methods. The abilities and properties of the presented approach are not only evaluated in simulation but also in a robotic experiment. The results are very promising as the used robot was able to perform stable walking at different speeds and to change speed within the same gait cycle. 

Title: Self-supervised classification of dynamic obstacles using the temporal information provided by videos
Abstract:  Nowadays, autonomous driving systems can detect, segment, and classify the surrounding obstacles using a monocular camera. However, state-of-the-art methods solving these tasks generally perform a fully supervised learning process and require a large amount of training labeled data. On another note, some self-supervised learning approaches can deal with detection and segmentation of dynamic obstacles using the temporal information available in video sequences. In this work, we propose to classify the detected obstacles depending on their motion pattern. We present a novel self-supervised framework consisting of learning offline clusters from temporal patch sequences and considering these clusters as labeled sets to train a real-time image classifier. The presented model outperforms state-of-the-art unsupervised image classification methods on large-scale diverse driving video dataset BDD100K. 

Title: Beyond Top-Grasps Through Scene Completion
Abstract:  Current end-to-end grasp planning methods propose grasps in the order of seconds that attain high grasp success rates on a diverse set of objects, but often by constraining the workspace to top-grasps. In this work, we present a method that allows end-to-end top-grasp planning methods to generate full six-degree-of-freedom grasps using a single RGB-D view as input. This is achieved by estimating the complete shape of the object to be grasped, then simulating different viewpoints of the object, passing the simulated viewpoints to an end-to-end grasp generation method, and finally executing the overall best grasp. The method was experimentally validated on a Franka Emika Panda by comparing 429 grasps generated by the state-of-the-art Fully Convolutional Grasp Quality CNN, both on simulated and real camera images. The results show statistically significant improvements in terms of grasp success rate when using simulated images over real camera images, especially when the real camera viewpoint is angled. Code and video are available at https://irobotics.aalto.fi/beyond-top-grasps-through-scene-completion/. 

Title: SoilingNet: Soiling Detection on Automotive Surround-View Cameras
Abstract:  Cameras are an essential part of sensor suite in autonomous driving. Surround-view cameras are directly exposed to external environment and are vulnerable to get soiled. Cameras have a much higher degradation in performance due to soiling compared to other sensors. Thus it is critical to accurately detect soiling on the cameras, particularly for higher levels of autonomous driving. We created a new dataset having multiple types of soiling namely opaque and transparent. It will be released publicly as part of our WoodScape dataset \cite{yogamani2019woodscape} to encourage further research. We demonstrate high accuracy using a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based architecture. We also show that it can be combined with the existing object detection task in a multi-task learning framework. Finally, we make use of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) to generate more images for data augmentation and show that it works successfully similar to the style transfer. 

Title: Target driven visual navigation exploiting object relationships
Abstract:  Recently target driven visual navigation strategies have gained a lot of popularity in the computer vision and reinforcement learning community. Unfortunately, most of the current research tends to incorporate sensory input into a reward-based learning approach, with the hope that a robot can implicitly learn its optimal actions through recursive trials. These methods seldom generalize across domains as they fail to exploit natural environment object relationships. We present Memory-utilized Joint hierarchical Object Learning for Navigation in Indoor Rooms (MJOLNIR), a target-driven visual navigation algorithm, which considers the inherent relationship between "target" objects, along with the more salient "parent" objects occurring in its surrounding. Extensive experiments conducted across multiple environment settings show $\approx \textbf{30 %}$ improvement over the existing state-of-the-art navigation methods in terms of the success rate. We also show that our model learns to converge much faster than other algorithms. We will make our code publicly available for use in the scientific community. 

Title: Deep vs. Deep Bayesian: Reinforcement Learning on a Multi-Robot Competitive Experiment
Abstract:  Deep Reinforcement Learning (RL) experiments are commonly performed in simulated environment, due to the tremendous training sample demand from deep neural networks. However, model-based Deep Bayesian RL, such as Deep PILCO, allows a robot to learn good policies within few trials in the real world. Although Deep PILCO has been applied on many single-robot tasks, in here we propose, for the first time, an application of Deep PILCO on a multi-robot confrontation game, and compare the algorithm with a model-free Deep RL algorithm, Deep Q-Learning. Our experiments show that Deep PILCO significantly outperforms Deep Q-Learning in learning efficiency and scalability. We conclude that sample-efficient Deep Bayesian learning algorithms have great prospects on competitive games where the agent aims to win the opponents in the real world, as opposed to simulated applications. 

Title: Unconstrained Road Marking Recognition with Generative Adversarial Networks
Abstract:  Recent road marking recognition has achieved great success in the past few years along with the rapid development of deep learning. Although considerable advances have been made, they are often over-dependent on unrepresentative datasets and constrained conditions. In this paper, to overcome these drawbacks, we propose an alternative method that achieves higher accuracy and generates high-quality samples as data augmentation. With the following two major contributions: 1) The proposed deblurring network can successfully recover a clean road marking from a blurred one by adopting generative adversarial networks (GAN). 2) The proposed data augmentation method, based on mutual information, can preserve and learn semantic context from the given dataset. We construct and train a class-conditional GAN to increase the size of training set, which makes it suitable to recognize target. The experimental results have shown that our proposed framework generates deblurred clean samples from blurry ones, and outperforms other methods even with unconstrained road marking datasets. 

Title: Bayesian Learning-Based Adaptive Control for Safety Critical Systems
Abstract:  Deep learning has enjoyed much recent success, and applying state-of-the-art model learning methods to controls is an exciting prospect. However, there is a strong reluctance to use these methods on safety-critical systems, which have constraints on safety, stability, and real-time performance. We propose a framework which satisfies these constraints while allowing the use of deep neural networks for learning model uncertainties. Central to our method is the use of Bayesian model learning, which provides an avenue for maintaining appropriate degrees of caution in the face of the unknown. In the proposed approach, we develop an adaptive control framework leveraging the theory of stochastic CLFs (Control Lyapunov Functions) and stochastic CBFs (Control Barrier Functions) along with tractable Bayesian model learning via Gaussian Processes or Bayesian neural networks. Under reasonable assumptions, we guarantee stability and safety while adapting to unknown dynamics with probability 1. We demonstrate this architecture for high-speed terrestrial mobility targeting potential applications in safety-critical high-speed Mars rover missions. 

Title: CPL-SLAM: Efficient and Certifiably Correct Planar Graph-Based SLAM Using the Complex Number Representation
Abstract:  In this paper, we consider the problem of planar graph-based simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) that involves both poses of the autonomous agent and positions of observed landmarks. We present CPL-SLAM, an efficient and certifiably correct algorithm to solve planar graph-based SLAM using the complex number representation. We formulate and simplify planar graph-based SLAM as the maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) on the product of unit complex numbers, and relax this nonconvex quadratic complex optimization problem to convex complex semidefinite programming (SDP). Furthermore, we simplify the corresponding complex semidefinite programming to Riemannian staircase optimization (RSO) on the complex oblique manifold that can be solved with the Riemannian trust region (RTR) method. In addition, we prove that the SDP relaxation and RSO simplification are tight as long as the noise magnitude is below a certain threshold. The efficacy of this work is validated through applications of CPL-SLAM and comparisons with existing state-of-the-art methods on planar graph-based SLAM, which indicates that our proposed algorithm is capable of solving planar graph-based SLAM certifiably, and is more efficient in numerical computation and more robust to measurement noise than existing state-of-the-art methods. The C++ code for CPL-SLAM is available at https://github.com/MurpheyLab/CPL-SLAM. 

Title: Combining RGB and Points to Predict Grasping Region for Robotic Bin-Picking
Abstract:  This paper focuses on a robotic picking tasks in cluttered scenario. Because of the diversity of objects and clutter by placing, it is much difficult to recognize and estimate their pose before grasping. Here, we use U-net, a special Convolution Neural Networks (CNN), to combine RGB images and depth information to predict picking region without recognition and pose estimation. The efficiency of diverse visual input of the network were compared, including RGB, RGB-D and RGB-Points. And we found the RGB-Points input could get a precision of 95.74%. 

Title: Deep Imitative Models for Flexible Inference, Planning, and Control
Abstract:  Imitation Learning (IL) is an appealing approach to learn desirable autonomous behavior. However, directing IL to achieve arbitrary goals is difficult. In contrast, planning-based algorithms use dynamics models and reward functions to achieve goals. Yet, reward functions that evoke desirable behavior are often difficult to specify. In this paper, we propose Imitative Models to combine the benefits of IL and goal-directed planning. Imitative Models are probabilistic predictive models of desirable behavior able to plan interpretable expert-like trajectories to achieve specified goals. We derive families of flexible goal objectives, including constrained goal regions, unconstrained goal sets, and energy-based goals. We show that our method can use these objectives to successfully direct behavior. Our method substantially outperforms six IL approaches and a planning-based approach in a dynamic simulated autonomous driving task, and is efficiently learned from expert demonstrations without online data collection. We also show our approach is robust to poorly specified goals, such as goals on the wrong side of the road. 

Title: Globally-Optimal Inlier Set Maximisation for Simultaneous Camera Pose and Feature Correspondence
Abstract:  Estimating the 6-DoF pose of a camera from a single image relative to a pre-computed 3D point-set is an important task for many computer vision applications. Perspective-n-Point (PnP) solvers are routinely used for camera pose estimation, provided that a good quality set of 2D-3D feature correspondences are known beforehand. However, finding optimal correspondences between 2D key-points and a 3D point-set is non-trivial, especially when only geometric (position) information is known. Existing approaches to the simultaneous pose and correspondence problem use local optimisation, and are therefore unlikely to find the optimal solution without a good pose initialisation, or introduce restrictive assumptions. Since a large proportion of outliers are common for this problem, we instead propose a globally-optimal inlier set cardinality maximisation approach which jointly estimates optimal camera pose and optimal correspondences. Our approach employs branch-and-bound to search the 6D space of camera poses, guaranteeing global optimality without requiring a pose prior. The geometry of SE(3) is used to find novel upper and lower bounds for the number of inliers and local optimisation is integrated to accelerate convergence. The evaluation empirically supports the optimality proof and shows that the method performs much more robustly than existing approaches, including on a large-scale outdoor data-set. 

Title: PCA-aided Fully Convolutional Networks for Semantic Segmentation of Multi-channel fMRI
Abstract:  Semantic segmentation of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) makes great sense for pathology diagnosis and decision system of medical robots. The multi-channel fMRI provides more information of the pathological features. But the increased amount of data causes complexity in feature detections. This paper proposes a principal component analysis (PCA)-aided fully convolutional network to particularly deal with multi-channel fMRI. We transfer the learned weights of contemporary classification networks to the segmentation task by fine-tuning. The results of the convolutional network are compared with various methods e.g. k-NN. A new labeling strategy is proposed to solve the semantic segmentation problem with unclear boundaries. Even with a small-sized training dataset, the test results demonstrate that our model outperforms other pathological feature detection methods. Besides, its forward inference only takes 90 milliseconds for a single set of fMRI data. To our knowledge, this is the first time to realize pixel-wise labeling of multi-channel magnetic resonance image using FCN. 

Title: IRIS: Implicit Reinforcement without Interaction at Scale for Learning Control from Offline Robot Manipulation Data
Abstract:  Learning from offline task demonstrations is a problem of great interest in robotics. For simple short-horizon manipulation tasks with modest variation in task instances, offline learning from a small set of demonstrations can produce controllers that successfully solve the task. However, leveraging a fixed batch of data can be problematic for larger datasets and longer-horizon tasks with greater variations. The data can exhibit substantial diversity and consist of suboptimal solution approaches. In this paper, we propose Implicit Reinforcement without Interaction at Scale (IRIS), a novel framework for learning from large-scale demonstration datasets. IRIS factorizes the control problem into a goal-conditioned low-level controller that imitates short demonstration sequences and a high-level goal selection mechanism that sets goals for the low-level and selectively combines parts of suboptimal solutions leading to more successful task completions. We evaluate IRIS across three datasets, including the RoboTurk Cans dataset collected by humans via crowdsourcing, and show that performant policies can be learned from purely offline learning. Additional results at https://sites.google.com/stanford.edu/iris/ . 

Title: Simplified_edition_Multi-robot SLAM Multi-view Target Tracking based on Panoramic Vision in Irregular Environment
Abstract:  In order to improve the precision of multi-robot SLAM multi-view target tracking process, a improved multi-robot SLAM multi-view target tracking algorithm based on panoramic vision in irregular environment was put forward, adding an correction factor to renew the existing Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) model, obtaining new coordinates X and Y after twice iterations. The paper has been accepted by Computing and Visualization in Science and this is a simplified version. 

Title: Efficient Sampling-Based Maximum Entropy Inverse Reinforcement Learning with Application to Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  In the past decades, we have witnessed significant progress in the domain of autonomous driving. Advanced techniques based on optimization and reinforcement learning (RL) become increasingly powerful at solving the forward problem: given designed reward/cost functions, how should we optimize them and obtain driving policies that interact with the environment safely and efficiently. Such progress has raised another equally important question: \emph{what should we optimize}? Instead of manually specifying the reward functions, it is desired that we can extract what human drivers try to optimize from real traffic data and assign that to autonomous vehicles to enable more naturalistic and transparent interaction between humans and intelligent agents. To address this issue, we present an efficient sampling-based maximum-entropy inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) algorithm in this paper. Different from existing IRL algorithms, by introducing an efficient continuous-domain trajectory sampler, the proposed algorithm can directly learn the reward functions in the continuous domain while considering the uncertainties in demonstrated trajectories from human drivers. We evaluate the proposed algorithm on real driving data, including both non-interactive and interactive scenarios. The experimental results show that the proposed algorithm achieves more accurate prediction performance with faster convergence speed and better generalization compared to other baseline IRL algorithms. 

Title: Distilling Knowledge From a Deep Pose Regressor Network
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel method to distill knowledge from a deep pose regressor network for efficient Visual Odometry (VO). Standard distillation relies on "dark knowledge" for successful knowledge transfer. As this knowledge is not available in pose regression and the teacher prediction is not always accurate, we propose to emphasize the knowledge transfer only when we trust the teacher. We achieve this by using teacher loss as a confidence score which places variable relative importance on the teacher prediction. We inject this confidence score to the main training task via Attentive Imitation Loss (AIL) and when learning the intermediate representation of the teacher through Attentive Hint Training (AHT) approach. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work which successfully distill the knowledge from a deep pose regression network. Our evaluation on the KITTI and Malaga dataset shows that we can keep the student prediction close to the teacher with up to 92.95% parameter reduction and 2.12x faster in computation time. 

Title: PRM-RL: Long-range Robotic Navigation Tasks by Combining Reinforcement Learning and Sampling-based Planning
Abstract:  We present PRM-RL, a hierarchical method for long-range navigation task completion that combines sampling based path planning with reinforcement learning (RL). The RL agents learn short-range, point-to-point navigation policies that capture robot dynamics and task constraints without knowledge of the large-scale topology. Next, the sampling-based planners provide roadmaps which connect robot configurations that can be successfully navigated by the RL agent. The same RL agents are used to control the robot under the direction of the planning, enabling long-range navigation. We use the Probabilistic Roadmaps (PRMs) for the sampling-based planner. The RL agents are constructed using feature-based and deep neural net policies in continuous state and action spaces. We evaluate PRM-RL, both in simulation and on-robot, on two navigation tasks with non-trivial robot dynamics: end-to-end differential drive indoor navigation in office environments, and aerial cargo delivery in urban environments with load displacement constraints. Our results show improvement in task completion over both RL agents on their own and traditional sampling-based planners. In the indoor navigation task, PRM-RL successfully completes up to 215 m long trajectories under noisy sensor conditions, and the aerial cargo delivery completes flights over 1000 m without violating the task constraints in an environment 63 million times larger than used in training. 

Title: Policy Search: Any Local Optimum Enjoys a Global Performance Guarantee
Abstract:  Local Policy Search is a popular reinforcement learning approach for handling large state spaces. Formally, it searches locally in a paramet erized policy space in order to maximize the associated value function averaged over some predefined distribution. It is probably commonly b elieved that the best one can hope in general from such an approach is to get a local optimum of this criterion. In this article, we show th e following surprising result: \emph{any} (approximate) \emph{local optimum} enjoys a \emph{global performance guarantee}. We compare this g uarantee with the one that is satisfied by Direct Policy Iteration, an approximate dynamic programming algorithm that does some form of Poli cy Search: if the approximation error of Local Policy Search may generally be bigger (because local search requires to consider a space of s tochastic policies), we argue that the concentrability coefficient that appears in the performance bound is much nicer. Finally, we discuss several practical and theoretical consequences of our analysis. 

Title: Brain4Cars: Car That Knows Before You Do via Sensory-Fusion Deep Learning Architecture
Abstract:  Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) have made driving safer over the last decade. They prepare vehicles for unsafe road conditions and alert drivers if they perform a dangerous maneuver. However, many accidents are unavoidable because by the time drivers are alerted, it is already too late. Anticipating maneuvers beforehand can alert drivers before they perform the maneuver and also give ADAS more time to avoid or prepare for the danger. In this work we propose a vehicular sensor-rich platform and learning algorithms for maneuver anticipation. For this purpose we equip a car with cameras, Global Positioning System (GPS), and a computing device to capture the driving context from both inside and outside of the car. In order to anticipate maneuvers, we propose a sensory-fusion deep learning architecture which jointly learns to anticipate and fuse multiple sensory streams. Our architecture consists of Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) that use Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) units to capture long temporal dependencies. We propose a novel training procedure which allows the network to predict the future given only a partial temporal context. We introduce a diverse data set with 1180 miles of natural freeway and city driving, and show that we can anticipate maneuvers 3.5 seconds before they occur in real-time with a precision and recall of 90.5\% and 87.4\% respectively. 

Title: Learning to Collide: An Adaptive Safety-Critical Scenarios Generating Method
Abstract:  Long-tail and rare event problems become crucial when autonomous driving algorithms are applied in the real world. For the purpose of evaluating systems in challenging settings, we propose a generative framework to create safety-critical scenarios for evaluating specific task algorithms. We first represent the traffic scenarios with a series of autoregressive building blocks and generate diverse scenarios by sampling from the joint distribution of these blocks. We then train the generative model as an agent (or a generator) to investigate the risky distribution parameters for a given driving algorithm being evaluated. We regard the task algorithm as an environment (or a discriminator) that returns a reward to the agent when a risky scenario is generated. Through the experiments conducted on several scenarios in the simulation, we demonstrate that the proposed framework generates safety-critical scenarios more efficiently than grid search or human design methods. Another advantage of this method is its adaptiveness to the routes and parameters. 

Title: Analytic Manifold Learning: Unifying and Evaluating Representations for Continuous Control
Abstract:  We address the problem of learning reusable state representations from streaming high-dimensional observations. This is important for areas like Reinforcement Learning (RL), which yields non-stationary data distributions during training. We make two key contributions. First, we propose an evaluation suite that measures alignment between latent and true low-dimensional states. We benchmark several widely used unsupervised learning approaches. This uncovers the strengths and limitations of existing approaches that impose additional constraints/objectives on the latent space. Our second contribution is a unifying mathematical formulation for learning latent relations. We learn analytic relations on source domains, then use these relations to help structure the latent space when learning on target domains. This formulation enables a more general, flexible and principled way of shaping the latent space. It formalizes the notion of learning independent relations, without imposing restrictive simplifying assumptions or requiring domain-specific information. We present mathematical properties, concrete algorithms for implementation and experimental validation of successful learning and transfer of latent relations. 

Title: Defensive Escort Teams via Multi-Agent Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Coordinated defensive escorts can aid a navigating payload by positioning themselves in order to maintain the safety of the payload from obstacles. In this paper, we present a novel, end-to-end solution for coordinating an escort team for protecting high-value payloads. Our solution employs deep reinforcement learning (RL) in order to train a team of escorts to maintain payload safety while navigating alongside the payload. This is done in a distributed fashion, relying only on limited range positional information of other escorts, the payload, and the obstacles. When compared to a state-of-art algorithm for obstacle avoidance, our solution with a single escort increases navigation success up to 31%. Additionally, escort teams increase success rate by up to 75% percent over escorts in static formations. We also show that this learned solution is general to several adaptations in the scenario including: a changing number of escorts in the team, changing obstacle density, and changes in payload conformation. Video: https://youtu.be/SoYesKti4VA. 

Title: DeepCrashTest: Turning Dashcam Videos into Virtual Crash Tests for Automated Driving Systems
Abstract:  The goal of this paper is to generate simulations with real-world collision scenarios for training and testing autonomous vehicles. We use numerous dashcam crash videos uploaded on the internet to extract valuable collision data and recreate the crash scenarios in a simulator. We tackle the problem of extracting 3D vehicle trajectories from videos recorded by an unknown and uncalibrated monocular camera source using a modular approach. A working architecture and demonstration videos along with the open-source implementation are provided with the paper. 

Title: Curiosity-driven Exploration for Mapless Navigation with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  This paper investigates exploration strategies of Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) methods to learn navigation policies for mobile robots. In particular, we augment the normal external reward for training DRL algorithms with intrinsic reward signals measured by curiosity. We test our approach in a mapless navigation setting, where the autonomous agent is required to navigate without the occupancy map of the environment, to targets whose relative locations can be easily acquired through low-cost solutions (e.g., visible light localization, Wi-Fi signal localization). We validate that the intrinsic motivation is crucial for improving DRL performance in tasks with challenging exploration requirements. Our experimental results show that our proposed method is able to more effectively learn navigation policies, and has better generalization capabilities in previously unseen environments. A video of our experimental results can be found at https://goo.gl/pWbpcF. 

Title: Planning Robot Motion using Deep Visual Prediction
Abstract:  In this paper, we introduce a novel framework that can learn to make visual predictions about the motion of a robotic agent from raw video frames. Our proposed motion prediction network (PROM-Net) can learn in a completely unsupervised manner and efficiently predict up to 10 frames in the future. Moreover, unlike any other motion prediction models, it is lightweight and once trained it can be easily implemented on mobile platforms that have very limited computing capabilities. We have created a new robotic data set comprising LEGO Mindstorms moving along various trajectories in three different environments under different lighting conditions for testing and training the network. Finally, we introduce a framework that would use the predicted frames from the network as an input to a model predictive controller for motion planning in unknown dynamic environments with moving obstacles. 

Title: SuPer: A Surgical Perception Framework for Endoscopic Tissue Manipulation with Surgical Robotics
Abstract:  Traditional control and task automation have been successfully demonstrated in a variety of structured, controlled environments through the use of highly specialized modeled robotic systems in conjunction with multiple sensors. However, the application of autonomy in endoscopic surgery is very challenging, particularly in soft tissue work, due to the lack of high-quality images and the unpredictable, constantly deforming environment. In this work, we propose a novel surgical perception framework, SuPer, for surgical robotic control. This framework continuously collects 3D geometric information that allows for mapping a deformable surgical field while tracking rigid instruments within the field. To achieve this, a model-based tracker is employed to localize the surgical tool with a kinematic prior in conjunction with a model-free tracker to reconstruct the deformable environment and provide an estimated point cloud as a mapping of the environment. The proposed framework was implemented on the da Vinci Surgical System in real-time with an end-effector controller where the target configurations are set and regulated through the framework. Our proposed framework successfully completed soft tissue manipulation tasks with high accuracy. The demonstration of this novel framework is promising for the future of surgical autonomy. In addition, we provide our dataset for further surgical research. 

Title: PRGFlow: Benchmarking SWAP-Aware Unified Deep Visual Inertial Odometry
Abstract:  Odometry on aerial robots has to be of low latency and high robustness whilst also respecting the Size, Weight, Area and Power (SWAP) constraints as demanded by the size of the robot. A combination of visual sensors coupled with Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs) has proven to be the best combination to obtain robust and low latency odometry on resource-constrained aerial robots. Recently, deep learning approaches for Visual Inertial fusion have gained momentum due to their high accuracy and robustness. However, the remarkable advantages of these techniques are their inherent scalability (adaptation to different sized aerial robots) and unification (same method works on different sized aerial robots) by utilizing compression methods and hardware acceleration, which have been lacking from previous approaches. To this end, we present a deep learning approach for visual translation estimation and loosely fuse it with an Inertial sensor for full 6DoF odometry estimation. We also present a detailed benchmark comparing different architectures, loss functions and compression methods to enable scalability. We evaluate our network on the MSCOCO dataset and evaluate the VI fusion on multiple real-flight trajectories. 

Title: Agent Prioritization for Autonomous Navigation
Abstract:  In autonomous navigation, a planning system reasons about other agents to plan a safe and plausible trajectory. Before planning starts, agents are typically processed with computationally intensive models for recognition, tracking, motion estimation and prediction. With limited computational resources and a large number of agents to process in real time, it becomes important to efficiently rank agents according to their impact on the decision making process. This allows spending more time processing the most important agents. We propose a system to rank agents around an autonomous vehicle (AV) in real time. We automatically generate a ranking data set by running the planner in simulation on real-world logged data, where we can afford to run more accurate and expensive models on all the agents. The causes of various planner actions are logged and used for assigning ground truth importance scores. The generated data set can be used to learn ranking models. In particular, we show the utility of combining learned features, via a convolutional neural network, with engineered features designed to capture domain knowledge. We show the benefits of various design choices experimentally. When tested on real AVs, our system demonstrates the capability of understanding complex driving situations. 

Title: Scaled Autonomy: Enabling Human Operators to Control Robot Fleets
Abstract:  Autonomous robots often encounter challenging situations where their control policies fail and an expert human operator must briefly intervene, e.g., through teleoperation. In settings where multiple robots act in separate environments, a single human operator can manage a fleet of robots by identifying and teleoperating one robot at any given time. The key challenge is that users have limited attention: as the number of robots increases, users lose the ability to decide which robot requires teleoperation the most. Our goal is to automate this decision, thereby enabling users to supervise more robots than their attention would normally allow for. Our insight is that we can model the user's choice of which robot to control as an approximately optimal decision that maximizes the user's utility function. We learn a model of the user's preferences from observations of the user's choices in easy settings with a few robots, and use it in challenging settings with more robots to automatically identify which robot the user would most likely choose to control, if they were able to evaluate the states of all robots at all times. We run simulation experiments and a user study with twelve participants that show our method can be used to assist users in performing a simulated navigation task. We also run a hardware demonstration that illustrates how our method can be applied to a real-world mobile robot navigation task. 

Title: Characterizing SLAM Benchmarks and Methods for the Robust Perception Age
Abstract:  The diversity of SLAM benchmarks affords extensive testing of SLAM algorithms to understand their performance, individually or in relative terms. The ad-hoc creation of these benchmarks does not necessarily illuminate the particular weak points of a SLAM algorithm when performance is evaluated. In this paper, we propose to use a decision tree to identify challenging benchmark properties for state-of-the-art SLAM algorithms and important components within the SLAM pipeline regarding their ability to handle these challenges. Establishing what factors of a particular sequence lead to track failure or degradation relative to these characteristics is important if we are to arrive at a strong understanding for the core computational needs of a robust SLAM algorithm. Likewise, we argue that it is important to profile the computational performance of the individual SLAM components for use when benchmarking. In particular, we advocate the use of time-dilation during ROS bag playback, or what we refer to as slo-mo playback. Using slo-mo to benchmark SLAM instantiations can provide clues to how SLAM implementations should be improved at the computational component level. Three prevalent VO/SLAM algorithms and two low-latency algorithms of our own are tested on selected typical sequences, which are generated from benchmark characterization, to further demonstrate the benefits achieved from computationally efficient components. 

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning framework for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning is considered to be a strong AI paradigm which can be used to teach machines through interaction with the environment and learning from their mistakes. Despite its perceived utility, it has not yet been successfully applied in automotive applications. Motivated by the successful demonstrations of learning of Atari games and Go by Google DeepMind, we propose a framework for autonomous driving using deep reinforcement learning. This is of particular relevance as it is difficult to pose autonomous driving as a supervised learning problem due to strong interactions with the environment including other vehicles, pedestrians and roadworks. As it is a relatively new area of research for autonomous driving, we provide a short overview of deep reinforcement learning and then describe our proposed framework. It incorporates Recurrent Neural Networks for information integration, enabling the car to handle partially observable scenarios. It also integrates the recent work on attention models to focus on relevant information, thereby reducing the computational complexity for deployment on embedded hardware. The framework was tested in an open source 3D car racing simulator called TORCS. Our simulation results demonstrate learning of autonomous maneuvering in a scenario of complex road curvatures and simple interaction of other vehicles. 

Title: Augmented Random Search for Quadcopter Control: An alternative to Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Model-based reinforcement learning strategies are believed to exhibit more significant sample complexity than model-free strategies to control dynamical systems,such as quadcopters.This belief that Model-based strategies that involve the use of well-trained neural networks for making such high-level decisions always give better performance can be dispelled by making use of Model-free policy search methods.This paper proposes the use of a model-free random searching strategy,called Augmented Random Search(ARS),which is a better and faster approach of linear policy training for continuous control tasks like controlling a Quadcopters flight.The method achieves state-of-the-art accuracy by eliminating the use of too much data for the training of neural networks that are present in the previous approaches to the task of Quadcopter control.The paper also highlights the performance results of the searching strategy used for this task in a strategically designed task environment with the help of simulations.Reward collection performance over 1000 episodes and agents behavior in flight for augmented random search is compared with that of the behavior for reinforcement learning state-of-the-art algorithm,called Deep Deterministic policy gradient(DDPG).Our simulations and results manifest that a high variability in performance is observed in commonly used strategies for sample efficiency of such tasks but the built policy network of ARS-Quad can react relatively accurately to step response providing a better performing alternative to reinforcement learning strategies. 

Title: The RBO Dataset of Articulated Objects and Interactions
Abstract:  We present a dataset with models of 14 articulated objects commonly found in human environments and with RGB-D video sequences and wrenches recorded of human interactions with them. The 358 interaction sequences total 67 minutes of human manipulation under varying experimental conditions (type of interaction, lighting, perspective, and background). Each interaction with an object is annotated with the ground truth poses of its rigid parts and the kinematic state obtained by a motion capture system. For a subset of 78 sequences (25 minutes), we also measured the interaction wrenches. The object models contain textured three-dimensional triangle meshes of each link and their motion constraints. We provide Python scripts to download and visualize the data. The data is available at https://tu-rbo.github.io/articulated-objects/ and hosted at https://zenodo.org/record/1036660/. 

Title: Grounding object perception in a naive agent's sensorimotor experience
Abstract:  Artificial object perception usually relies on a priori defined models and feature extraction algorithms. We study how the concept of object can be grounded in the sensorimotor experience of a naive agent. Without any knowledge about itself or the world it is immersed in, the agent explores its sensorimotor space and identifies objects as consistent networks of sensorimotor transitions, independent from their context. A fundamental drive for prediction is assumed to explain the emergence of such networks from a developmental standpoint. An algorithm is proposed and tested to illustrate the approach. 

Title: Autonomous Tissue Scanning under Free-Form Motion for Intraoperative Tissue Characterisation
Abstract:  In Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS), tissue scanning with imaging probes is required for subsurface visualisation to characterise the state of the tissue. However, scanning of large tissue surfaces in the presence of deformation is a challenging task for the surgeon. Recently, robot-assisted local tissue scanning has been investigated for motion stabilisation of imaging probes to facilitate the capturing of good quality images and reduce the surgeon's cognitive load. Nonetheless, these approaches require the tissue surface to be static or deform with periodic motion. To eliminate these assumptions, we propose a visual servoing framework for autonomous tissue scanning, able to deal with free-form tissue deformation. The 3D structure of the surgical scene is recovered and a feature-based method is proposed to estimate the motion of the tissue in real-time. A desired scanning trajectory is manually defined on a reference frame and continuously updated using projective geometry to follow the tissue motion and control the movement of the robotic arm. The advantage of the proposed method is that it does not require the learning of the tissue motion prior to scanning and can deal with free-form deformation. We deployed this framework on the da Vinci surgical robot using the da Vinci Research Kit (dVRK) for Ultrasound tissue scanning. Since the framework does not rely on information from the Ultrasound data, it can be easily extended to other probe-based imaging modalities. 

Title: Universal Planning Networks
Abstract:  A key challenge in complex visuomotor control is learning abstract representations that are effective for specifying goals, planning, and generalization. To this end, we introduce universal planning networks (UPN). UPNs embed differentiable planning within a goal-directed policy. This planning computation unrolls a forward model in a latent space and infers an optimal action plan through gradient descent trajectory optimization. The plan-by-gradient-descent process and its underlying representations are learned end-to-end to directly optimize a supervised imitation learning objective. We find that the representations learned are not only effective for goal-directed visual imitation via gradient-based trajectory optimization, but can also provide a metric for specifying goals using images. The learned representations can be leveraged to specify distance-based rewards to reach new target states for model-free reinforcement learning, resulting in substantially more effective learning when solving new tasks described via image-based goals. We were able to achieve successful transfer of visuomotor planning strategies across robots with significantly different morphologies and actuation capabilities. 

Title: Shared Autonomy via Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  In shared autonomy, user input is combined with semi-autonomous control to achieve a common goal. The goal is often unknown ex-ante, so prior work enables agents to infer the goal from user input and assist with the task. Such methods tend to assume some combination of knowledge of the dynamics of the environment, the user's policy given their goal, and the set of possible goals the user might target, which limits their application to real-world scenarios. We propose a deep reinforcement learning framework for model-free shared autonomy that lifts these assumptions. We use human-in-the-loop reinforcement learning with neural network function approximation to learn an end-to-end mapping from environmental observation and user input to agent action values, with task reward as the only form of supervision. This approach poses the challenge of following user commands closely enough to provide the user with real-time action feedback and thereby ensure high-quality user input, but also deviating from the user's actions when they are suboptimal. We balance these two needs by discarding actions whose values fall below some threshold, then selecting the remaining action closest to the user's input. Controlled studies with users (n = 12) and synthetic pilots playing a video game, and a pilot study with users (n = 4) flying a real quadrotor, demonstrate the ability of our algorithm to assist users with real-time control tasks in which the agent cannot directly access the user's private information through observations, but receives a reward signal and user input that both depend on the user's intent. The agent learns to assist the user without access to this private information, implicitly inferring it from the user's input. This paper is a proof of concept that illustrates the potential for deep reinforcement learning to enable flexible and practical assistive systems. 

Title: Accelerating Cooperative Planning for Automated Vehicles with Learned Heuristics and Monte Carlo Tree Search
Abstract:  Efficient driving in urban traffic scenarios requires foresight. The observation of other traffic participants and the inference of their possible next actions depending on the own action is considered cooperative prediction and planning. Humans are well equipped with the capability to predict the actions of multiple interacting traffic participants and plan accordingly, without the need to directly communicate with others. Prior work has shown that it is possible to achieve effective cooperative planning without the need for explicit communication. However, the search space for cooperative plans is so large that most of the computational budget is spent on exploring the search space in unpromising regions that are far away from the solution. To accelerate the planning process, we combined learned heuristics with a cooperative planning method to guide the search towards regions with promising actions, yielding better solutions at lower computational costs. 

Title: Where to Look Next: Unsupervised Active Visual Exploration on 360{\deg} Input
Abstract:  We address the problem of active visual exploration of large 360{\deg} inputs. In our setting an active agent with a limited camera bandwidth explores its 360{\deg} environment by changing its viewing direction at limited discrete time steps. As such, it observes the world as a sequence of narrow field-of-view 'glimpses', deciding for itself where to look next. Our proposed method exceeds previous works' performance by a significant margin without the need for deep reinforcement learning or training separate networks as sidekicks. A key component of our system are the spatial memory maps that make the system aware of the glimpses' orientations (locations in the 360{\deg} image). Further, we stress the advantages of retina-like glimpses when the agent's sensor bandwidth and time-steps are limited. Finally, we use our trained model to do classification of the whole scene using only the information observed in the glimpses. 

Title: Driven to Distraction: Self-Supervised Distractor Learning for Robust Monocular Visual Odometry in Urban Environments
Abstract:  We present a self-supervised approach to ignoring "distractors" in camera images for the purposes of robustly estimating vehicle motion in cluttered urban environments. We leverage offline multi-session mapping approaches to automatically generate a per-pixel ephemerality mask and depth map for each input image, which we use to train a deep convolutional network. At run-time we use the predicted ephemerality and depth as an input to a monocular visual odometry (VO) pipeline, using either sparse features or dense photometric matching. Our approach yields metric-scale VO using only a single camera and can recover the correct egomotion even when 90% of the image is obscured by dynamic, independently moving objects. We evaluate our robust VO methods on more than 400km of driving from the Oxford RobotCar Dataset and demonstrate reduced odometry drift and significantly improved egomotion estimation in the presence of large moving vehicles in urban traffic. 

Title: LiDAR Iris for Loop-Closure Detection
Abstract:  In this paper, a global descriptor for a LiDAR point cloud, called LiDAR Iris, is proposed for fast and accurate loop-closure detection. A binary signature image can be obtained for each point cloud after several LoG-Gabor filtering and thresholding operations on the LiDAR-Iris image representation. Given two point clouds, their similarities can be calculated as the Hamming distance of two corresponding binary signature images extracted from the two point clouds, respectively. Our LiDAR-Iris method can achieve a pose-invariant loop-closure detection at a descriptor level with the Fourier transform of the LiDAR-Iris representation if assuming a 3D (x,y,yaw) pose space, although our method can generally be applied to a 6D pose space by re-aligning point clouds with an additional IMU sensor. Experimental results on five road-scene sequences demonstrate its excellent performance in loop-closure detection. 

Title: Towards Learning Multi-agent Negotiations via Self-Play
Abstract:  Making sophisticated, robust, and safe sequential decisions is at the heart of intelligent systems. This is especially critical for planning in complex multi-agent environments, where agents need to anticipate other agents' intentions and possible future actions. Traditional methods formulate the problem as a Markov Decision Process, but the solutions often rely on various assumptions and become brittle when presented with corner cases. In contrast, deep reinforcement learning (Deep RL) has been very effective at finding policies by simultaneously exploring, interacting, and learning from environments. Leveraging the powerful Deep RL paradigm, we demonstrate that an iterative procedure of self-play can create progressively more diverse environments, leading to the learning of sophisticated and robust multi-agent policies. We demonstrate this in a challenging multi-agent simulation of merging traffic, where agents must interact and negotiate with others in order to successfully merge on or off the road. While the environment starts off simple, we increase its complexity by iteratively adding an increasingly diverse set of agents to the agent "zoo" as training progresses. Qualitatively, we find that through self-play, our policies automatically learn interesting behaviors such as defensive driving, overtaking, yielding, and the use of signal lights to communicate intentions to other agents. In addition, quantitatively, we show a dramatic improvement of the success rate of merging maneuvers from 63% to over 98%. 

Title: Simplified vision based automatic navigation for wheat harvesting in low income economies
Abstract:  Recent developments in the domain of agricultural robotics have resulted in development of complex and efficient systems. Most of the land owners in the South Asian region are low income farmers. The agricultural experience for them is still a completely manual process. However, the extreme weather conditions, heat and flooding, often combine to put a lot of stress on these small land owners and the associated labor. In this paper, we propose a prototype for an automated power reaper for the wheat crop. This automated vehicle is navigated using a simple vision based approach employing the low-cost camera and assisted GPS. The mechanical platform is driven by three motors controlled through an interface between the proposed vision algorithm and the electrical drive. The proposed methodology is applied on some real field scenarios to demonstrate the efficiency of the vision based algorithm. 

Title: Tracking of Micro Unmanned Aerial Vehicles: A Comparative Study
Abstract:  Micro unmanned aerial vehicles (mUAV) became very common in recent years. As a result of their widespread usage, when they are flown by hobbyists illegally, crucial risks are imposed and such mUAVs need to be sensed by security systems. Furthermore, the sensing of mUAVs are essential for also swarm robotics research where the individuals in a flock of robots require systems to sense and localize each other for coordinated operation. In order to obtain such systems, there are studies to detect mUAVs utilizing different sensing mediums, such as vision, infrared and sound signals, and small-scale radars. However, there are still challenges that awaits to be handled in this field such as integrating tracking approaches to the vision-based detection systems to enhance accuracy and computational complexity. For this reason, in this study, we combine various tracking approaches to a vision-based mUAV detection system available in the literature, in order to evaluate different tracking approaches in terms of accuracy and as well as investigate the effect of such integration to the computational cost. 

Title: Bayesian Pose Graph Optimization via Bingham Distributions and Tempered Geodesic MCMC
Abstract:  We introduce Tempered Geodesic Markov Chain Monte Carlo (TG-MCMC) algorithm for initializing pose graph optimization problems, arising in various scenarios such as SFM (structure from motion) or SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping). TG-MCMC is first of its kind as it unites asymptotically global non-convex optimization on the spherical manifold of quaternions with posterior sampling, in order to provide both reliable initial poses and uncertainty estimates that are informative about the quality of individual solutions. We devise rigorous theoretical convergence guarantees for our method and extensively evaluate it on synthetic and real benchmark datasets. Besides its elegance in formulation and theory, we show that our method is robust to missing data, noise and the estimated uncertainties capture intuitive properties of the data. 

Title: A Deep Learning Framework for Recognizing both Static and Dynamic Gestures
Abstract:  Intuitive user interfaces are indispensable to interact with human centric smart environments. In this paper, we propose a unified framework that recognizes both static and dynamic gestures, using simple RGB vision (without depth sensing). This feature makes it suitable for inexpensive human-machine interaction (HMI). We rely on a spatial attention-based strategy, which employs SaDNet, our proposed Static and Dynamic gestures Network. From the image of the human upper body, we estimate his/her depth, along with the region-of-interest around his/her hands. The Convolutional Neural Networks in SaDNet are fine-tuned on a background-substituted hand gestures dataset. They are utilized to detect 10 static gestures for each hand and to obtain hand image-embeddings from the last Fully Connected layer, which are subsequently fused with the augmented pose vector and then passed to stacked Long Short-Term Memory blocks. Thus, human-centered frame-wise information from the augmented pose vector and left/right hands image-embeddings are aggregated in time to predict the dynamic gestures of the performing person. In a number of experiments we show that the proposed approach surpasses the state-of-the-art results on large-scale Chalearn 2016 dataset. Moreover, we also transfer the knowledge learned through the proposed methodology to the Praxis gestures dataset, and the obtained results also outscore the state-of-the-art on this dataset. 

Title: Does computer vision matter for action?
Abstract:  Computer vision produces representations of scene content. Much computer vision research is predicated on the assumption that these intermediate representations are useful for action. Recent work at the intersection of machine learning and robotics calls this assumption into question by training sensorimotor systems directly for the task at hand, from pixels to actions, with no explicit intermediate representations. Thus the central question of our work: Does computer vision matter for action? We probe this question and its offshoots via immersive simulation, which allows us to conduct controlled reproducible experiments at scale. We instrument immersive three-dimensional environments to simulate challenges such as urban driving, off-road trail traversal, and battle. Our main finding is that computer vision does matter. Models equipped with intermediate representations train faster, achieve higher task performance, and generalize better to previously unseen environments. A video that summarizes the work and illustrates the results can be found at https://youtu.be/4MfWa2yZ0Jc 

Title: Making Sense of Vision and Touch: Self-Supervised Learning of Multimodal Representations for Contact-Rich Tasks
Abstract:  Contact-rich manipulation tasks in unstructured environments often require both haptic and visual feedback. However, it is non-trivial to manually design a robot controller that combines modalities with very different characteristics. While deep reinforcement learning has shown success in learning control policies for high-dimensional inputs, these algorithms are generally intractable to deploy on real robots due to sample complexity. We use self-supervision to learn a compact and multimodal representation of our sensory inputs, which can then be used to improve the sample efficiency of our policy learning. We evaluate our method on a peg insertion task, generalizing over different geometry, configurations, and clearances, while being robust to external perturbations. Results for simulated and real robot experiments are presented. 

Title: Symbolic Regression Driven by Training Data and Prior Knowledge
Abstract:  In symbolic regression, the search for analytic models is typically driven purely by the prediction error observed on the training data samples. However, when the data samples do not sufficiently cover the input space, the prediction error does not provide sufficient guidance toward desired models. Standard symbolic regression techniques then yield models that are partially incorrect, for instance, in terms of their steady-state characteristics or local behavior. If these properties were considered already during the search process, more accurate and relevant models could be produced. We propose a multi-objective symbolic regression approach that is driven by both the training data and the prior knowledge of the properties the desired model should manifest. The properties given in the form of formal constraints are internally represented by a set of discrete data samples on which candidate models are exactly checked. The proposed approach was experimentally evaluated on three test problems with results clearly demonstrating its capability to evolve realistic models that fit the training data well while complying with the prior knowledge of the desired model characteristics at the same time. It outperforms standard symbolic regression by several orders of magnitude in terms of the mean squared deviation from a reference model. 

Title: Learning Hierarchical Object Maps Of Non-Stationary Environments with mobile robots
Abstract:  Building models, or maps, of robot environments is a highly active research area; however, most existing techniques construct unstructured maps and assume static environments. In this paper, we present an algorithm for learning object models of non-stationary objects found in office-type environments. Our algorithm exploits the fact that many objects found in office environments look alike (e.g., chairs, recycling bins). It does so through a two-level hierarchical representation, which links individual objects with generic shape templates of object classes. We derive an approximate EM algorithm for learning shape parameters at both levels of the hierarchy, using local occupancy grid maps for representing shape. Additionally, we develop a Bayesian model selection algorithm that enables the robot to estimate the total number of objects and object templates in the environment. Experimental results using a real robot equipped with a laser range finder indicate that our approach performs well at learning object-based maps of simple office environments. The approach outperforms a previously developed non-hierarchical algorithm that models objects but lacks class templates. 

Title: The ACRV Picking Benchmark (APB): A Robotic Shelf Picking Benchmark to Foster Reproducible Research
Abstract:  Robotic challenges like the Amazon Picking Challenge (APC) or the DARPA Challenges are an established and important way to drive scientific progress. They make research comparable on a well-defined benchmark with equal test conditions for all participants. However, such challenge events occur only occasionally, are limited to a small number of contestants, and the test conditions are very difficult to replicate after the main event. We present a new physical benchmark challenge for robotic picking: the ACRV Picking Benchmark (APB). Designed to be reproducible, it consists of a set of 42 common objects, a widely available shelf, and exact guidelines for object arrangement using stencils. A well-defined evaluation protocol enables the comparison of \emph{complete} robotic systems -- including perception and manipulation -- instead of sub-systems only. Our paper also describes and reports results achieved by an open baseline system based on a Baxter robot. 

Title: Motion-Nets: 6D Tracking of Unknown Objects in Unseen Environments using RGB
Abstract:  In this work, we bridge the gap between recent pose estimation and tracking work to develop a powerful method for robots to track objects in their surroundings. Motion-Nets use a segmentation model to segment the scene, and separate translation and rotation models to identify the relative 6D motion of an object between two consecutive frames. We train our method with generated data of floating objects, and then test on several prediction tasks, including one with a real PR2 robot, and a toy control task with a simulated PR2 robot never seen during training. Motion-Nets are able to track the pose of objects with some quantitative accuracy for about 30-60 frames including occlusions and distractors. Additionally, the single step prediction errors remain low even after 100 frames. We also investigate an iterative correction procedure to improve performance for control tasks. 

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning Controller for 3D Path-following and Collision Avoidance by Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Abstract:  Control theory provides engineers with a multitude of tools to design controllers that manipulate the closed-loop behavior and stability of dynamical systems. These methods rely heavily on insights about the mathematical model governing the physical system. However, in complex systems, such as autonomous underwater vehicles performing the dual objective of path-following and collision avoidance, decision making becomes non-trivial. We propose a solution using state-of-the-art Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) techniques, to develop autonomous agents capable of achieving this hybrid objective without having \`a priori knowledge about the goal or the environment. Our results demonstrate the viability of DRL in path-following and avoiding collisions toward achieving human-level decision making in autonomous vehicle systems within extreme obstacle configurations. 

Title: Virtual KITTI 2
Abstract:  This paper introduces an updated version of the well-known Virtual KITTI dataset which consists of 5 sequence clones from the KITTI tracking benchmark. In addition, the dataset provides different variants of these sequences such as modified weather conditions (e.g. fog, rain) or modified camera configurations (e.g. rotated by 15 degrees). For each sequence, we provide multiple sets of images containing RGB, depth, class segmentation, instance segmentation, flow, and scene flow data. Camera parameters and poses as well as vehicle locations are available as well. In order to showcase some of the dataset's capabilities, we ran multiple relevant experiments using state-of-the-art algorithms from the field of autonomous driving. The dataset is available for download at https://europe.naverlabs.com/Research/Computer-Vision/Proxy-Virtual-Worlds. 

Title: DROGON: A Causal Reasoning Framework for Future Trajectory Forecast
Abstract:  We propose DROGON (Deep RObust Goal-Oriented trajectory prediction Network) for accurate vehicle trajectory forecast by considering behavioral intention of vehicles in traffic scenes. Our main insight is that a causal relationship between intention and behavior of drivers can be reasoned from the observation of their relational interactions toward an environment. To succeed in causal reasoning, we build a conditional prediction model to forecast goal-oriented trajectories, which is trained with the following stages: (i) relational inference where we encode relational interactions of vehicles using the perceptual context; (ii) intention estimation to compute the probability distribution of intentional goals based on the inferred relations; and (iii) causal reasoning where we reason about the behavior of vehicles as future locations conditioned on the intention. To properly evaluate the performance of our approach, we present a new large-scale dataset collected at road intersections with diverse interactions of vehicles. The experiments demonstrate the efficacy of DROGON as it consistently outperforms state-of-the-art techniques. 

Title: Selective Sensor Fusion for Neural Visual-Inertial Odometry
Abstract:  Deep learning approaches for Visual-Inertial Odometry (VIO) have proven successful, but they rarely focus on incorporating robust fusion strategies for dealing with imperfect input sensory data. We propose a novel end-to-end selective sensor fusion framework for monocular VIO, which fuses monocular images and inertial measurements in order to estimate the trajectory whilst improving robustness to real-life issues, such as missing and corrupted data or bad sensor synchronization. In particular, we propose two fusion modalities based on different masking strategies: deterministic soft fusion and stochastic hard fusion, and we compare with previously proposed direct fusion baselines. During testing, the network is able to selectively process the features of the available sensor modalities and produce a trajectory at scale. We present a thorough investigation on the performances on three public autonomous driving, Micro Aerial Vehicle (MAV) and hand-held VIO datasets. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the fusion strategies, which offer better performances compared to direct fusion, particularly in presence of corrupted data. In addition, we study the interpretability of the fusion networks by visualising the masking layers in different scenarios and with varying data corruption, revealing interesting correlations between the fusion networks and imperfect sensory input data. 

Title: Real-Time 6DOF Pose Relocalization for Event Cameras with Stacked Spatial LSTM Networks
Abstract:  We present a new method to relocalize the 6DOF pose of an event camera solely based on the event stream. Our method first creates the event image from a list of events that occurs in a very short time interval, then a Stacked Spatial LSTM Network (SP-LSTM) is used to learn the camera pose. Our SP-LSTM is composed of a CNN to learn deep features from the event images and a stack of LSTM to learn spatial dependencies in the image feature space. We show that the spatial dependency plays an important role in the relocalization task and the SP-LSTM can effectively learn this information. The experimental results on a publicly available dataset show that our approach generalizes well and outperforms recent methods by a substantial margin. Overall, our proposed method reduces by approx. 6 times the position error and 3 times the orientation error compared to the current state of the art. The source code and trained models will be released. 

Title: Touch the Wind: Simultaneous Airflow, Drag and Interaction Sensing on a Multirotor
Abstract:  Disturbance estimation for Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) is crucial for robustness and safety. In this paper, we use novel, bio-inspired airflow sensors to measure the airflow acting on a MAV, and we fuse this information in an Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF) to simultaneously estimate the three-dimensional wind vector, the drag force, and other interaction forces (e.g. due to collisions, interaction with a human) acting on the robot. To this end, we present and compare a fully model-based and a deep learning-based strategy. The model-based approach considers the MAV and airflow sensor dynamics and its interaction with the wind, while the deep learning-based strategy uses a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) neural network to obtain an estimate of the relative airflow, which is then fused in the proposed filter. We validate our methods in hardware experiments, showing that we can accurately estimate relative airflow of up to 4 m/s, and we can differentiate drag and interaction force. 

Title: UAV Path Planning for Wireless Data Harvesting: A Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach
Abstract:  Autonomous deployment of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) supporting next-generation communication networks requires efficient trajectory planning methods. We propose a new end-to-end reinforcement learning (RL) approach to UAV-enabled data collection from Internet of Things (IoT) devices in an urban environment. An autonomous drone is tasked with gathering data from distributed sensor nodes subject to limited flying time and obstacle avoidance. While previous approaches, learning and non-learning based, must perform expensive recomputations or relearn a behavior when important scenario parameters such as the number of sensors, sensor positions, or maximum flying time, change, we train a double deep Q-network (DDQN) with combined experience replay to learn a UAV control policy that generalizes over changing scenario parameters. By exploiting a multi-layer map of the environment fed through convolutional network layers to the agent, we show that our proposed network architecture enables the agent to make movement decisions for a variety of scenario parameters that balance the data collection goal with flight time efficiency and safety constraints. Considerable advantages in learning efficiency from using a map centered on the UAV's position over a non-centered map are also illustrated. 

Title: Transfer Learning and Organic Computing for Autonomous Vehicles
Abstract:  Autonomous Vehicles(AV) are one of the brightest promises of the future which would help cut down fatalities and improve travel time while working in harmony. Autonomous vehicles will face with challenging situations and experiences not seen before. These experiences should be converted to knowledge and help the vehicle prepare better in the future. Online Transfer Learning will help transferring prior knowledge to a new task and also keep the knowledge updated as the task evolves. This paper presents the different methods of transfer learning, online transfer learning and organic computing that could be adapted to the domain of autonomous vehicles. 

Title: Learning to Dynamically Coordinate Multi-Robot Teams in Graph Attention Networks
Abstract:  Increasing interest in integrating advanced robotics within manufacturing has spurred a renewed concentration in developing real-time scheduling solutions to coordinate human-robot collaboration in this environment. Traditionally, the problem of scheduling agents to complete tasks with temporal and spatial constraints has been approached either with exact algorithms, which are computationally intractable for large-scale, dynamic coordination, or approximate methods that require domain experts to craft heuristics for each application. We seek to overcome the limitations of these conventional methods by developing a novel graph attention network formulation to automatically learn features of scheduling problems to allow their deployment. To learn effective policies for combinatorial optimization problems via machine learning, we combine imitation learning on smaller problems with deep Q-learning on larger problems, in a non-parametric framework, to allow for fast, near-optimal scheduling of robot teams. We show that our network-based policy finds at least twice as many solutions over prior state-of-the-art methods in all testing scenarios. 

Title: Benchmarking Model-Based Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Model-based reinforcement learning (MBRL) is widely seen as having the potential to be significantly more sample efficient than model-free RL. However, research in model-based RL has not been very standardized. It is fairly common for authors to experiment with self-designed environments, and there are several separate lines of research, which are sometimes closed-sourced or not reproducible. Accordingly, it is an open question how these various existing MBRL algorithms perform relative to each other. To facilitate research in MBRL, in this paper we gather a wide collection of MBRL algorithms and propose over 18 benchmarking environments specially designed for MBRL. We benchmark these algorithms with unified problem settings, including noisy environments. Beyond cataloguing performance, we explore and unify the underlying algorithmic differences across MBRL algorithms. We characterize three key research challenges for future MBRL research: the dynamics bottleneck, the planning horizon dilemma, and the early-termination dilemma. Finally, to maximally facilitate future research on MBRL, we open-source our benchmark in http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~tingwuwang/mbrl.html. 

Title: Stereo Event Lifetime and Disparity Estimation for Dynamic Vision Sensors
Abstract:  Event-based cameras are biologically inspired sensors that output asynchronous pixel-wise brightness changes in the scene called events. They have a high dynamic range and temporal resolution of a microsecond, opposed to standard cameras that output frames at fixed frame rates and suffer from motion blur. Forming stereo pairs of such cameras can open novel application possibilities, since for each event depth can be readily estimated; however, to fully exploit asynchronous nature of the sensor and avoid fixed time interval event accumulation, stereo event lifetime estimation should be employed. In this paper, we propose a novel method for event lifetime estimation of stereo event-cameras, allowing generation of sharp gradient images of events that serve as input to disparity estimation methods. Since a single brightness change triggers events in both event-camera sensors, we propose a method for single shot event lifetime and disparity estimation, with association via stereo matching. The proposed method is approximately twice as fast and more accurate than if lifetimes were estimated separately for each sensor and then stereo matched. Results are validated on real-world data through multiple stereo event-camera experiments. 

Title: Unsupervised Monocular Depth and Ego-motion Learning with Structure and Semantics
Abstract:  We present an approach which takes advantage of both structure and semantics for unsupervised monocular learning of depth and ego-motion. More specifically, we model the motion of individual objects and learn their 3D motion vector jointly with depth and ego-motion. We obtain more accurate results, especially for challenging dynamic scenes not addressed by previous approaches. This is an extended version of Casser et al. [AAAI'19]. Code and models have been open sourced at https://sites.google.com/corp/view/struct2depth. 

Title: Robotic Grasp Detection using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks
Abstract:  Deep learning has significantly advanced computer vision and natural language processing. While there have been some successes in robotics using deep learning, it has not been widely adopted. In this paper, we present a novel robotic grasp detection system that predicts the best grasping pose of a parallel-plate robotic gripper for novel objects using the RGB-D image of the scene. The proposed model uses a deep convolutional neural network to extract features from the scene and then uses a shallow convolutional neural network to predict the grasp configuration for the object of interest. Our multi-modal model achieved an accuracy of 89.21% on the standard Cornell Grasp Dataset and runs at real-time speeds. This redefines the state-of-the-art for robotic grasp detection. 

Title: Interactive Visualization for Debugging RL
Abstract:  Visualization tools for supervised learning allow users to interpret, introspect, and gain an intuition for the successes and failures of their models. While reinforcement learning practitioners ask many of the same questions, existing tools are not applicable to the RL setting as these tools address challenges typically found in the supervised learning regime. In this work, we design and implement an interactive visualization tool for debugging and interpreting RL algorithms. Our system addresses many features missing from previous tools such as (1) tools for supervised learning often are not interactive; (2) while debugging RL policies researchers use state representations that are different from those seen by the agent; (3) a framework designed to make the debugging RL policies more conducive. We provide an example workflow of how this system could be used, along with ideas for future extensions. 

Title: Bellman Gradient Iteration for Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  This paper develops an inverse reinforcement learning algorithm aimed at recovering a reward function from the observed actions of an agent. We introduce a strategy to flexibly handle different types of actions with two approximations of the Bellman Optimality Equation, and a Bellman Gradient Iteration method to compute the gradient of the Q-value with respect to the reward function. These methods allow us to build a differentiable relation between the Q-value and the reward function and learn an approximately optimal reward function with gradient methods. We test the proposed method in two simulated environments by evaluating the accuracy of different approximations and comparing the proposed method with existing solutions. The results show that even with a linear reward function, the proposed method has a comparable accuracy with the state-of-the-art method adopting a non-linear reward function, and the proposed method is more flexible because it is defined on observed actions instead of trajectories. 

Title: q-VAE for Disentangled Representation Learning and Latent Dynamical Systems
Abstract:  A variational autoencoder (VAE) derived from Tsallis statistics called q-VAE is proposed. In the proposed method, a standard VAE is employed to statistically extract latent space hidden in sampled data, and this latent space helps make robots controllable in feasible computational time and cost. To improve the usefulness of the latent space, this paper focuses on disentangled representation learning, e.g., $\beta$-VAE, which is the baseline for it. Starting from a Tsallis statistics perspective, a new lower bound for the proposed q-VAE is derived to maximize the likelihood of the sampled data, which can be considered an adaptive $\beta$-VAE with deformed Kullback-Leibler divergence. To verify the benefits of the proposed q-VAE, a benchmark task to extract the latent space from the MNIST dataset was performed. The results demonstrate that the proposed q-VAE improved disentangled representation while maintaining the reconstruction accuracy of the data. In addition, it relaxes the independency condition between data, which is demonstrated by learning the latent dynamics of nonlinear dynamical systems. By combining disentangled representation, the proposed q-VAE achieves stable and accurate long-term state prediction from the initial state and the action sequence. 

Title: Diverse Trajectory Forecasting with Determinantal Point Processes
Abstract:  The ability to forecast a set of likely yet diverse possible future behaviors of an agent (e.g., future trajectories of a pedestrian) is essential for safety-critical perception systems (e.g., autonomous vehicles). In particular, a set of possible future behaviors generated by the system must be diverse to account for all possible outcomes in order to take necessary safety precautions. It is not sufficient to maintain a set of the most likely future outcomes because the set may only contain perturbations of a single outcome. While generative models such as variational autoencoders (VAEs) have been shown to be a powerful tool for learning a distribution over future trajectories, randomly drawn samples from the learned implicit likelihood model may not be diverse -- the likelihood model is derived from the training data distribution and the samples will concentrate around the major mode that has most data. In this work, we propose to learn a diversity sampling function (DSF) that generates a diverse and likely set of future trajectories. The DSF maps forecasting context features to a set of latent codes which can be decoded by a generative model (e.g., VAE) into a set of diverse trajectory samples. Concretely, the process of identifying the diverse set of samples is posed as a parameter estimation of the DSF. To learn the parameters of the DSF, the diversity of the trajectory samples is evaluated by a diversity loss based on a determinantal point process (DPP). Gradient descent is performed over the DSF parameters, which in turn move the latent codes of the sample set to find an optimal diverse and likely set of trajectories. Our method is a novel application of DPPs to optimize a set of items (trajectories) in continuous space. We demonstrate the diversity of the trajectories produced by our approach on both low-dimensional 2D trajectory data and high-dimensional human motion data. 

Title: Event-based Vision: A Survey
Abstract:  Event cameras are bio-inspired sensors that differ from conventional frame cameras: Instead of capturing images at a fixed rate, they asynchronously measure per-pixel brightness changes, and output a stream of events that encode the time, location and sign of the brightness changes. Event cameras offer attractive properties compared to traditional cameras: high temporal resolution (in the order of microseconds), very high dynamic range (140 dB vs. 60 dB), low power consumption, and high pixel bandwidth (on the order of kHz) resulting in reduced motion blur. Hence, event cameras have a large potential for robotics and computer vision in challenging scenarios for traditional cameras, such as low-latency, high speed, and high dynamic range. However, novel methods are required to process the unconventional output of these sensors in order to unlock their potential. This paper provides a comprehensive overview of the emerging field of event-based vision, with a focus on the applications and the algorithms developed to unlock the outstanding properties of event cameras. We present event cameras from their working principle, the actual sensors that are available and the tasks that they have been used for, from low-level vision (feature detection and tracking, optic flow, etc.) to high-level vision (reconstruction, segmentation, recognition). We also discuss the techniques developed to process events, including learning-based techniques, as well as specialized processors for these novel sensors, such as spiking neural networks. Additionally, we highlight the challenges that remain to be tackled and the opportunities that lie ahead in the search for a more efficient, bio-inspired way for machines to perceive and interact with the world. 

Title: FlowNet3D++: Geometric Losses For Deep Scene Flow Estimation
Abstract:  We present FlowNet3D++, a deep scene flow estimation network. Inspired by classical methods, FlowNet3D++ incorporates geometric constraints in the form of point-to-plane distance and angular alignment between individual vectors in the flow field, into FlowNet3D. We demonstrate that the addition of these geometric loss terms improves the previous state-of-art FlowNet3D accuracy from 57.85% to 63.43%. To further demonstrate the effectiveness of our geometric constraints, we propose a benchmark for flow estimation on the task of dynamic 3D reconstruction, thus providing a more holistic and practical measure of performance than the breakdown of individual metrics previously used to evaluate scene flow. This is made possible through the contribution of a novel pipeline to integrate point-based scene flow predictions into a global dense volume. FlowNet3D++ achieves up to a 15.0% reduction in reconstruction error over FlowNet3D, and up to a 35.2% improvement over KillingFusion alone. We will release our scene flow estimation code later. 

Title: Toward Hierarchical Self-Supervised Monocular Absolute Depth Estimation for Autonomous Driving Applications
Abstract:  In recent years, self-supervised methods for monocular depth estimation has rapidly become an significant branch of depth estimation task, especially for autonomous driving applications. Despite the high overall precision achieved, current methods still suffer from a) imprecise object-level depth inference and b) uncertain scale factor. The former problem would cause texture copy or provide inaccurate object boundary, and the latter would require current methods to have an additional sensor like LiDAR to provide depth groundtruth or stereo camera as additional training inputs, which makes them difficult to implement. In this work, we propose to address these two problems together by introducing DNet. Our contributions are twofold: a) a novel dense connected prediction (DCP) layer is proposed to provide better object-level depth estimation and b) specifically for autonomous driving scenarios, dense geometrical constrains (DGC) is introduced so that precise scale factor can be recovered without additional cost for autonomous vehicles. Extensive experiments have been conducted and, both DCP layer and DGC module are proved to be effectively solving the aforementioned problems respectively. Thanks to DCP layer, object boundary can now be better distinguished in the depth map and the depth is more continues on object level. It is also demonstrated that the performance of using DGC to perform scale recovery is comparable to that using ground-truth information, when the camera height is given and the ground point takes up more than 1.03% of the pixels. Code will be publicly available once the paper is accepted. 

Title: Task-Agnostic Online Reinforcement Learning with an Infinite Mixture of Gaussian Processes
Abstract:  Continuously learning to solve unseen tasks with limited experience has been extensively pursued in meta-learning and continual learning, but with restricted assumptions such as accessible task distributions, independently and identically distributed tasks, and clear task delineations. However, real-world physical tasks frequently violate these assumptions, resulting in performance degradation. This paper proposes a continual online model-based reinforcement learning approach that does not require pre-training to solve task-agnostic problems with unknown task boundaries. We maintain a mixture of experts to handle nonstationarity, and represent each different type of dynamics with a Gaussian Process to efficiently leverage collected data and expressively model uncertainty. We propose a transition prior to account for the temporal dependencies in streaming data and update the mixture online via sequential variational inference. Our approach reliably handles the task distribution shift by generating new models for never-before-seen dynamics and reusing old models for previously seen dynamics. In experiments, our approach outperforms alternative methods in non-stationary tasks, including classic control with changing dynamics and decision making in different driving scenarios. 

Title: Visual Semantic Navigation using Scene Priors
Abstract:  How do humans navigate to target objects in novel scenes? Do we use the semantic/functional priors we have built over years to efficiently search and navigate? For example, to search for mugs, we search cabinets near the coffee machine and for fruits we try the fridge. In this work, we focus on incorporating semantic priors in the task of semantic navigation. We propose to use Graph Convolutional Networks for incorporating the prior knowledge into a deep reinforcement learning framework. The agent uses the features from the knowledge graph to predict the actions. For evaluation, we use the AI2-THOR framework. Our experiments show how semantic knowledge improves performance significantly. More importantly, we show improvement in generalization to unseen scenes and/or objects. The supplementary video can be accessed at the following link: https://youtu.be/otKjuO805dE . 

Title: Deep Learning-based Human Detection for UAVs with Optical and Infrared Cameras: System and Experiments
Abstract:  In this paper, we present our deep learning-based human detection system that uses optical (RGB) and long-wave infrared (LWIR) cameras to detect, track, localize, and re-identify humans from UAVs flying at high altitude. In each spectrum, a customized RetinaNet network with ResNet backbone provides human detections which are subsequently fused to minimize the overall false detection rate. We show that by optimizing the bounding box anchors and augmenting the image resolution the number of missed detections from high altitudes can be decreased by over 20 percent. Our proposed network is compared to different RetinaNet and YOLO variants, and to a classical optical-infrared human detection framework that uses hand-crafted features. Furthermore, along with the publication of this paper, we release a collection of annotated optical-infrared datasets recorded with different UAVs during search-and-rescue field tests and the source code of the implemented annotation tool. 

Title: Learning Control for Air Hockey Striking using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  We consider the task of learning control policies for a robotic mechanism striking a puck in an air hockey game. The control signal is a direct command to the robot's motors. We employ a model free deep reinforcement learning framework to learn the motoric skills of striking the puck accurately in order to score. We propose certain improvements to the standard learning scheme which make the deep Q-learning algorithm feasible when it might otherwise fail. Our improvements include integrating prior knowledge into the learning scheme, and accounting for the changing distribution of samples in the experience replay buffer. Finally we present our simulation results for aimed striking which demonstrate the successful learning of this task, and the improvement in algorithm stability due to the proposed modifications. 

Title: A survey on policy search algorithms for learning robot controllers in a handful of trials
Abstract:  Most policy search algorithms require thousands of training episodes to find an effective policy, which is often infeasible with a physical robot. This survey article focuses on the extreme other end of the spectrum: how can a robot adapt with only a handful of trials (a dozen) and a few minutes? By analogy with the word "big-data", we refer to this challenge as "micro-data reinforcement learning". We show that a first strategy is to leverage prior knowledge on the policy structure (e.g., dynamic movement primitives), on the policy parameters (e.g., demonstrations), or on the dynamics (e.g., simulators). A second strategy is to create data-driven surrogate models of the expected reward (e.g., Bayesian optimization) or the dynamical model (e.g., model-based policy search), so that the policy optimizer queries the model instead of the real system. Overall, all successful micro-data algorithms combine these two strategies by varying the kind of model and prior knowledge. The current scientific challenges essentially revolve around scaling up to complex robots (e.g., humanoids), designing generic priors, and optimizing the computing time. 

Title: Fast and Accurate Semantic Mapping through Geometric-based Incremental Segmentation
Abstract:  We propose an efficient and scalable method for incrementally building a dense, semantically annotated 3D map in real-time. The proposed method assigns class probabilities to each region, not each element (e.g., surfel and voxel), of the 3D map which is built up through a robust SLAM framework and incrementally segmented with a geometric-based segmentation method. Differently from all other approaches, our method has a capability of running at over 30Hz while performing all processing components, including SLAM, segmentation, 2D recognition, and updating class probabilities of each segmentation label at every incoming frame, thanks to the high efficiency that characterizes the computationally intensive stages of our framework. By utilizing a specifically designed CNN to improve the frame-wise segmentation result, we can also achieve high accuracy. We validate our method on the NYUv2 dataset by comparing with the state of the art in terms of accuracy and computational efficiency, and by means of an analysis in terms of time and space complexity. 

Title: Uncertainty-aware Short-term Motion Prediction of Traffic Actors for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  We address one of the crucial aspects necessary for safe and efficient operations of autonomous vehicles, namely predicting future state of traffic actors in the autonomous vehicle's surroundings. We introduce a deep learning-based approach that takes into account a current world state and produces raster images of each actor's vicinity. The rasters are then used as inputs to deep convolutional models to infer future movement of actors while also accounting for and capturing inherent uncertainty of the prediction task. Extensive experiments on real-world data strongly suggest benefits of the proposed approach. Moreover, following completion of the offline tests the system was successfully tested onboard self-driving vehicles. 

Title: Risk-sensitive Inverse Reinforcement Learning via Semi- and Non-Parametric Methods
Abstract:  The literature on Inverse Reinforcement Learning (IRL) typically assumes that humans take actions in order to minimize the expected value of a cost function, i.e., that humans are risk neutral. Yet, in practice, humans are often far from being risk neutral. To fill this gap, the objective of this paper is to devise a framework for risk-sensitive IRL in order to explicitly account for a human's risk sensitivity. To this end, we propose a flexible class of models based on coherent risk measures, which allow us to capture an entire spectrum of risk preferences from risk-neutral to worst-case. We propose efficient non-parametric algorithms based on linear programming and semi-parametric algorithms based on maximum likelihood for inferring a human's underlying risk measure and cost function for a rich class of static and dynamic decision-making settings. The resulting approach is demonstrated on a simulated driving game with ten human participants. Our method is able to infer and mimic a wide range of qualitatively different driving styles from highly risk-averse to risk-neutral in a data-efficient manner. Moreover, comparisons of the Risk-Sensitive (RS) IRL approach with a risk-neutral model show that the RS-IRL framework more accurately captures observed participant behavior both qualitatively and quantitatively, especially in scenarios where catastrophic outcomes such as collisions can occur. 

Title: Assistive Relative Pose Estimation for On-orbit Assembly using Convolutional Neural Networks
Abstract:  Accurate real-time pose estimation of spacecraft or object in space is a key capability necessary for on-orbit spacecraft servicing and assembly tasks. Pose estimation of objects in space is more challenging than for objects on Earth due to space images containing widely varying illumination conditions, high contrast, and poor resolution in addition to power and mass constraints. In this paper, a convolutional neural network is leveraged to uniquely determine the translation and rotation of an object of interest relative to the camera. The main idea of using CNN model is to assist object tracker used in on space assembly tasks where only feature based method is always not sufficient. The simulation framework designed for assembly task is used to generate dataset for training the modified CNN models and, then results of different models are compared with measure of how accurately models are predicting the pose. Unlike many current approaches for spacecraft or object in space pose estimation, the model does not rely on hand-crafted object-specific features which makes this model more robust and easier to apply to other types of spacecraft. It is shown that the model performs comparable to the current feature-selection methods and can therefore be used in conjunction with them to provide more reliable estimates. 

Title: MRS-VPR: a multi-resolution sampling based global visual place recognition method
Abstract:  Place recognition and loop closure detection are challenging for long-term visual navigation tasks. SeqSLAM is considered to be one of the most successful approaches to achieving long-term localization under varying environmental conditions and changing viewpoints. It depends on a brute-force, time-consuming sequential matching method. We propose MRS-VPR, a multi-resolution, sampling-based place recognition method, which can significantly improve the matching efficiency and accuracy in sequential matching. The novelty of this method lies in the coarse-to-fine searching pipeline and a particle filter-based global sampling scheme, that can balance the matching efficiency and accuracy in the long-term navigation task. Moreover, our model works much better than SeqSLAM when the testing sequence has a much smaller scale than the reference sequence. Our experiments demonstrate that the proposed method is efficient in locating short temporary trajectories within long-term reference ones without losing accuracy compared to SeqSLAM. 

Title: Joint Goal and Strategy Inference across Heterogeneous Demonstrators via Reward Network Distillation
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning (RL) has achieved tremendous success as a general framework for learning how to make decisions. However, this success relies on the interactive hand-tuning of a reward function by RL experts. On the other hand, inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) seeks to learn a reward function from readily-obtained human demonstrations. Yet, IRL suffers from two major limitations: 1) reward ambiguity - there are an infinite number of possible reward functions that could explain an expert's demonstration and 2) heterogeneity - human experts adopt varying strategies and preferences, which makes learning from multiple demonstrators difficult due to the common assumption that demonstrators seeks to maximize the same reward. In this work, we propose a method to jointly infer a task goal and humans' strategic preferences via network distillation. This approach enables us to distill a robust task reward (addressing reward ambiguity) and to model each strategy's objective (handling heterogeneity). We demonstrate our algorithm can better recover task reward and strategy rewards and imitate the strategies in two simulated tasks and a real-world table tennis task. 

Title: Super-Human Performance in Gran Turismo Sport Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Autonomous car racing raises fundamental robotics challenges such as planning minimum-time trajectories under uncertain dynamics and controlling the car at its friction limits. In this project, we consider the task of autonomous car racing in the top-selling car racing game Gran Turismo Sport. Gran Turismo Sport is known for its detailed physics simulation of various cars and tracks. Our approach makes use of maximum-entropy deep reinforcement learning and a new reward design to train a sensorimotor policy to complete a given race track as fast as possible. We evaluate our approach in three different time trial settings with different cars and tracks. Our results show that the obtained controllers not only beat the built-in non-player character of Gran Turismo Sport, but also outperform the fastest known times in a dataset of personal best lap times of over 50,000 human drivers. 

Title: Residual Force Control for Agile Human Behavior Imitation and Extended Motion Synthesis
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning has shown great promise for synthesizing realistic human behaviors by learning humanoid control policies from motion capture data. However, it is still very challenging to reproduce sophisticated human skills like ballet dance, or to stably imitate long-term human behaviors with complex transitions. The main difficulty lies in the dynamics mismatch between the humanoid model and real humans. That is, motions of real humans may not be physically possible for the humanoid model. To overcome the dynamics mismatch, we propose a novel approach, residual force control (RFC), that augments a humanoid control policy by adding external residual forces into the action space. During training, the RFC-based policy learns to apply residual forces to the humanoid to compensate for the dynamics mismatch and better imitate the reference motion. Experiments on a wide range of dynamic motions demonstrate that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of convergence speed and the quality of learned motions. For the first time, we show a physics-based virtual character performing highly agile ballet dance moves such as pirouette, arabesque and jet\'e. Furthermore, we propose a dual-policy control framework, where a kinematic policy and an RFC-based policy work in tandem to synthesize multi-modal infinite-horizon human motions without any task guidance or user input. Our approach is the first humanoid control method that successfully learns from a large-scale human motion dataset (Human3.6M) and generates diverse long-term motions. 

Title: Domain Adaptation for Robot Predictive Maintenance Systems
Abstract:  Industrial robots play an increasingly important role in a growing number of fields. For example, robotics is used to increase productivity while reducing costs in various aspects of manufacturing. Since robots are often set up in production lines, the breakdown of a single robot has a negative impact on the entire process, in the worst case bringing the whole line to a halt until the issue is resolved, leading to substantial financial losses due to the unforeseen downtime. Therefore, predictive maintenance systems based on the internal signals of robots have gained attention as an essential component of robotics service offerings. The main shortcoming of existing predictive maintenance algorithms is that the extracted features typically differ significantly from the learnt model when the operation of the robot changes, incurring false alarms. In order to mitigate this problem, predictive maintenance algorithms require the model to be retrained with normal data of the new operation. In this paper, we propose a novel solution based on transfer learning to pass the knowledge of the trained model from one operation to another in order to prevent the need for retraining and to eliminate such false alarms. The deployment of the proposed unsupervised transfer learning algorithm on real-world datasets demonstrates that the algorithm can not only distinguish between operation and mechanical condition change, it further yields a sharper deviation from the trained model in case of a mechanical condition change and thus detects mechanical issues with higher confidence. 

Title: Leveraging Contact Forces for Learning to Grasp
Abstract:  Grasping objects under uncertainty remains an open problem in robotics research. This uncertainty is often due to noisy or partial observations of the object pose or shape. To enable a robot to react appropriately to unforeseen effects, it is crucial that it continuously takes sensor feedback into account. While visual feedback is important for inferring a grasp pose and reaching for an object, contact feedback offers valuable information during manipulation and grasp acquisition. In this paper, we use model-free deep reinforcement learning to synthesize control policies that exploit contact sensing to generate robust grasping under uncertainty. We demonstrate our approach on a multi-fingered hand that exhibits more complex finger coordination than the commonly used two-fingered grippers. We conduct extensive experiments in order to assess the performance of the learned policies, with and without contact sensing. While it is possible to learn grasping policies without contact sensing, our results suggest that contact feedback allows for a significant improvement of grasping robustness under object pose uncertainty and for objects with a complex shape. 

Title: Automated Analysis of Behavioural Variability and Filial Imprinting of Chicks (G. gallus), using Autonomous Robots
Abstract:  Inter-individual variability has various impacts in animal social behaviour. This implies that not only collective behaviours have to be studied but also the behavioural variability of each member composing the groups. To understand those effects on group behaviour, we develop a quantitative methodology based on automated ethograms and autonomous robots to study the inter-individual variability among social animals. We choose chicks of \textit{Gallus gallus domesticus} as a classic social animal model system for their suitability in laboratory and controlled experimentation. Moreover, even domesticated chicken present social structures implying forms or leadership and filial imprinting. We develop an imprinting methodology on autonomous robots to study individual and social behaviour of free moving animals. This allows to quantify the behaviours of large number of animals. We develop an automated experimental methodology that allows to make relatively fast controlled experiments and efficient data analysis. Our analysis are based on high-throughput data allowing a fine quantification of individual behavioural traits. We quantify the efficiency of various state-of-the-art algorithms to automate data analysis and produce automated ethograms. We show that the use of robots allows to provide controlled and quantified stimuli to the animals in absence of human intervention. We quantify the individual behaviour of 205 chicks obtained from hatching after synchronized fecundation. Our results show a high variability of individual behaviours and of imprinting quality and success. Three classes of chicks are observed with various level of imprinting. Our study shows that the concomitant use of autonomous robots and automated ethograms allows detailed and quantitative analysis of behavioural patterns of animals in controlled laboratory experiments. 

Title: Vision and Learning for Deliberative Monocular Cluttered Flight
Abstract:  Cameras provide a rich source of information while being passive, cheap and lightweight for small and medium Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). In this work we present the first implementation of receding horizon control, which is widely used in ground vehicles, with monocular vision as the only sensing mode for autonomous UAV flight in dense clutter. We make it feasible on UAVs via a number of contributions: novel coupling of perception and control via relevant and diverse, multiple interpretations of the scene around the robot, leveraging recent advances in machine learning to showcase anytime budgeted cost-sensitive feature selection, and fast non-linear regression for monocular depth prediction. We empirically demonstrate the efficacy of our novel pipeline via real world experiments of more than 2 kms through dense trees with a quadrotor built from off-the-shelf parts. Moreover our pipeline is designed to combine information from other modalities like stereo and lidar as well if available. 

Title: Vision-Based Multi-Task Manipulation for Inexpensive Robots Using End-To-End Learning from Demonstration
Abstract:  We propose a technique for multi-task learning from demonstration that trains the controller of a low-cost robotic arm to accomplish several complex picking and placing tasks, as well as non-prehensile manipulation. The controller is a recurrent neural network using raw images as input and generating robot arm trajectories, with the parameters shared across the tasks. The controller also combines VAE-GAN-based reconstruction with autoregressive multimodal action prediction. Our results demonstrate that it is possible to learn complex manipulation tasks, such as picking up a towel, wiping an object, and depositing the towel to its previous position, entirely from raw images with direct behavior cloning. We show that weight sharing and reconstruction-based regularization substantially improve generalization and robustness, and training on multiple tasks simultaneously increases the success rate on all tasks. 

Title: Multi-Volume High Resolution RGB-D Mapping with Dynamic Volume Placement
Abstract:  We present a novel RGB-D mapping system for generating 3D maps over spatially extended regions with higher resolution than current methods using multiple, dynamically placed mapping volumes. Our method takes in RGB-D frames and dynamically assigns multiple mapping volumes to the environment, exchanging mapping volumes between the CPU and GPU. Mapping volumes are added or removed as needed to allow for spatially extended, high resolution mapping. Our system is designed to maximize the resolution possible for such volumetric methods, while working on an unbounded space. 

Title: Features for Ground Texture Based Localization -- A Survey
Abstract:  Ground texture based vehicle localization using feature-based methods is a promising approach to achieve infrastructure-free high-accuracy localization. In this paper, we provide the first extensive evaluation of available feature extraction methods for this task, using separately taken image pairs as well as synthetic transformations. We identify AKAZE, SURF and CenSurE as best performing keypoint detectors, and find pairings of CenSurE with the ORB, BRIEF and LATCH feature descriptors to achieve greatest success rates for incremental localization, while SIFT stands out when considering severe synthetic transformations as they might occur during absolute localization. 

Title: Providentia - A Large-Scale Sensor System for the Assistance of Autonomous Vehicles and Its Evaluation
Abstract:  The environmental perception of an autonomous vehicle is limited by its physical sensor ranges and algorithmic performance, as well as by occlusions that degrade its understanding of an ongoing traffic situation. This not only poses a significant threat to safety and limits driving speeds, but it can also lead to inconvenient maneuvers. Intelligent Infrastructure Systems can help to alleviate these problems. An Intelligent Infrastructure System can fill in the gaps in a vehicle's perception and extend its field of view by providing additional detailed information about its surroundings, in the form of a digital model of the current traffic situation, i.e. a digital twin. However, detailed descriptions of such systems and working prototypes demonstrating their feasibility are scarce. In this paper, we propose a hardware and software architecture that enables such a reliable Intelligent Infrastructure System to be built. We have implemented this system in the real world and demonstrate its ability to create an accurate digital twin of an extended highway stretch, thus enhancing an autonomous vehicle's perception beyond the limits of its on-board sensors. Furthermore, we evaluate the digital twin with respect to its spatial accuracy, precision, and recall by using aerial images and earth observation methods for generating ground truth data. 

Title: LeTS-Drive: Driving in a Crowd by Learning from Tree Search
Abstract:  Autonomous driving in a crowded environment, e.g., a busy traffic intersection, is an unsolved challenge for robotics. The robot vehicle must contend with a dynamic and partially observable environment, noisy sensors, and many agents. A principled approach is to formalize it as a Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP) and solve it through online belief-tree search. To handle a large crowd and achieve real-time performance in this very challenging setting, we propose LeTS-Drive, which integrates online POMDP planning and deep learning. It consists of two phases. In the offline phase, we learn a policy and the corresponding value function by imitating the belief tree search. In the online phase, the learned policy and value function guide the belief tree search. LeTS-Drive leverages the robustness of planning and the runtime efficiency of learning to enhance the performance of both. Experimental results in simulation show that LeTS-Drive outperforms either planning or imitation learning alone and develops sophisticated driving skills. 

Title: Object-Independent Human-to-Robot Handovers using Real Time Robotic Vision
Abstract:  We present an approach for safe and object-independent human-to-robot handovers using real time robotic vision and manipulation. We aim for general applicability with a generic object detector, a fast grasp selection algorithm and by using a single gripper-mounted RGB-D camera, hence not relying on external sensors. The robot is controlled via visual servoing towards the object of interest. Putting a high emphasis on safety, we use two perception modules: human body part segmentation and hand/finger segmentation. Pixels that are deemed to belong to the human are filtered out from candidate grasp poses, hence ensuring that the robot safely picks the object without colliding with the human partner. The grasp selection and perception modules run concurrently in real-time, which allows monitoring of the progress. In experiments with 13 objects, the robot was able to successfully take the object from the human in 81.9% of the trials. 

Title: Quantized Reinforcement Learning (QUARL)
Abstract:  Recent work has shown that quantization can help reduce the memory, compute, and energy demands of deep neural networks without significantly harming their quality. However, whether these prior techniques, applied traditionally to image-based models, work with the same efficacy to the sequential decision making process in reinforcement learning remains an unanswered question. To address this void, we conduct the first comprehensive empirical study that quantifies the effects of quantization on various deep reinforcement learning policies with the intent to reduce their computational resource demands. We apply techniques such as post-training quantization and quantization aware training to a spectrum of reinforcement learning tasks (such as Pong, Breakout, BeamRider and more) and training algorithms (such as PPO, A2C, DDPG, and DQN). Across this spectrum of tasks and learning algorithms, we show that policies can be quantized to 6-8 bits of precision without loss of accuracy. We also show that certain tasks and reinforcement learning algorithms yield policies that are more difficult to quantize due to their effect of widening the models' distribution of weights and that quantization aware training consistently improves results over post-training quantization and oftentimes even over the full precision baseline. Finally, we demonstrate real-world applications of quantization for reinforcement learning. We use half-precision training to train a Pong model 50% faster, and we deploy a quantized reinforcement learning based navigation policy to an embedded system, achieving an 18$\times$ speedup and a 4$\times$ reduction in memory usage over an unquantized policy. 

Title: P$^2$GNet: Pose-Guided Point Cloud Generating Networks for 6-DoF Object Pose Estimation
Abstract:  Humans are able to perform fast and accurate object pose estimation even under severe occlusion by exploiting learned object model priors from everyday life. However, most recently proposed pose estimation algorithms neglect to utilize the information of object models, often end up with limited accuracy, and tend to fall short in cluttered scenes. In this paper, we present a novel learning-based model, \underline{P}ose-Guided \underline{P}oint Cloud \underline{G}enerating Networks for 6D Object Pose Estimation (P$^2$GNet), designed to effectively exploit object model priors to facilitate 6D object pose estimation. We achieve this with an end-to-end estimation-by-generation workflow that combines the appearance information from the RGB-D image and the structure knowledge from object point cloud to enable accurate and robust pose estimation. Experiments on two commonly used benchmarks for 6D pose estimation, YCB-Video dataset and LineMOD dataset, demonstrate that P$^2$GNet outperforms the state-of-the-art method by a large margin and shows marked robustness towards heavy occlusion, while achieving real-time inference. 

Title: Non-Adversarial Imitation Learning and its Connections to Adversarial Methods
Abstract:  Many modern methods for imitation learning and inverse reinforcement learning, such as GAIL or AIRL, are based on an adversarial formulation. These methods apply GANs to match the expert's distribution over states and actions with the implicit state-action distribution induced by the agent's policy. However, by framing imitation learning as a saddle point problem, adversarial methods can suffer from unstable optimization, and convergence can only be shown for small policy updates. We address these problems by proposing a framework for non-adversarial imitation learning. The resulting algorithms are similar to their adversarial counterparts and, thus, provide insights for adversarial imitation learning methods. Most notably, we show that AIRL is an instance of our non-adversarial formulation, which enables us to greatly simplify its derivations and obtain stronger convergence guarantees. We also show that our non-adversarial formulation can be used to derive novel algorithms by presenting a method for offline imitation learning that is inspired by the recent ValueDice algorithm, but does not rely on small policy updates for convergence. In our simulated robot experiments, our offline method for non-adversarial imitation learning seems to perform best when using many updates for policy and discriminator at each iteration and outperforms behavioral cloning and ValueDice. 

Title: Follow the Object: Curriculum Learning for Manipulation Tasks with Imagined Goals
Abstract:  Learning robot manipulation through deep reinforcement learning in environments with sparse rewards is a challenging task. In this paper we address this problem by introducing a notion of imaginary object goals. For a given manipulation task, the object of interest is first trained to reach a desired target position on its own, without being manipulated, through physically realistic simulations. The object policy is then leveraged to build a predictive model of plausible object trajectories providing the robot with a curriculum of incrementally more difficult object goals to reach during training. The proposed algorithm, Follow the Object (FO), has been evaluated on 7 MuJoCo environments requiring increasing degree of exploration, and has achieved higher success rates compared to alternative algorithms. In particularly challenging learning scenarios, e.g. where the object's initial and target positions are far apart, our approach can still learn a policy whereas competing methods currently fail. 

Title: Deep-Learning-Based Aerial Image Classification for Emergency Response Applications Using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
Abstract:  Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), equipped with camera sensors can facilitate enhanced situational awareness for many emergency response and disaster management applications since they are capable of operating in remote and difficult to access areas. In addition, by utilizing an embedded platform and deep learning UAVs can autonomously monitor a disaster stricken area, analyze the image in real-time and alert in the presence of various calamities such as collapsed buildings, flood, or fire in order to faster mitigate their effects on the environment and on human population. To this end, this paper focuses on the automated aerial scene classification of disaster events from on-board a UAV. Specifically, a dedicated Aerial Image Database for Emergency Response (AIDER) applications is introduced and a comparative analysis of existing approaches is performed. Through this analysis a lightweight convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture is developed, capable of running efficiently on an embedded platform achieving ~3x higher performance compared to existing models with minimal memory requirements with less than 2% accuracy drop compared to the state-of-the-art. These preliminary results provide a solid basis for further experimentation towards real-time aerial image classification for emergency response applications using UAVs. 

Title: Flight Dynamics-based Recovery of a UAV Trajectory using Ground Cameras
Abstract:  We propose a new method to estimate the 6-dof trajectory of a flying object such as a quadrotor UAV within a 3D airspace monitored using multiple fixed ground cameras. It is based on a new structure from motion formulation for the 3D reconstruction of a single moving point with known motion dynamics. Our main contribution is a new bundle adjustment procedure which in addition to optimizing the camera poses, regularizes the point trajectory using a prior based on motion dynamics (or specifically flight dynamics). Furthermore, we can infer the underlying control input sent to the UAV's autopilot that determined its flight trajectory. Our method requires neither perfect single-view tracking nor appearance matching across views. For robustness, we allow the tracker to generate multiple detections per frame in each video. The true detections and the data association across videos is estimated using robust multi-view triangulation and subsequently refined during our bundle adjustment procedure. Quantitative evaluation on simulated data and experiments on real videos from indoor and outdoor scenes demonstrates the effectiveness of our method. 

Title: On Solving the 2-Dimensional Greedy Shooter Problem for UAVs
Abstract:  Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), autonomously-guided aircraft, are widely used for tasks involving surveillance and reconnaissance. A version of the pursuit-evasion problems centered around UAVs and its variants has been extensively studied in recent years due to numerous breakthroughs in AI. We present an approach to UAV pursuit-evasion in a 2D aerial-engagement environment using reinforcement learning (RL), a machine learning paradigm concerned with goal-oriented algorithms. In this work, a UAV wielding the greedy shooter strategy engages with a UAV trained using deep Q-learning techniques. Simulated results show that the latter UAV wins every engagement in which the UAVs are suffciently separated during initialization. This approach highlights an exhaustive and robust application of reinforcement learning to pursuit-evasion that provides insight into effective strategies for UAV flight and interaction. 

Title: Revisiting Active Perception
Abstract:  Despite the recent successes in robotics, artificial intelligence and computer vision, a complete artificial agent necessarily must include active perception. A multitude of ideas and methods for how to accomplish this have already appeared in the past, their broader utility perhaps impeded by insufficient computational power or costly hardware. The history of these ideas, perhaps selective due to our perspectives, is presented with the goal of organizing the past literature and highlighting the seminal contributions. We argue that those contributions are as relevant today as they were decades ago and, with the state of modern computational tools, are poised to find new life in the robotic perception systems of the next decade. 

Title: Achieving Synergy in Cognitive Behavior of Humanoids via Deep Learning of Dynamic Visuo-Motor-Attentional Coordination
Abstract:  The current study examines how adequate coordination among different cognitive processes including visual recognition, attention switching, action preparation and generation can be developed via learning of robots by introducing a novel model, the Visuo-Motor Deep Dynamic Neural Network (VMDNN). The proposed model is built on coupling of a dynamic vision network, a motor generation network, and a higher level network allocated on top of these two. The simulation experiments using the iCub simulator were conducted for cognitive tasks including visual object manipulation responding to human gestures. The results showed that synergetic coordination can be developed via iterative learning through the whole network when spatio-temporal hierarchy and temporal one can be self-organized in the visual pathway and in the motor pathway, respectively, such that the higher level can manipulate them with abstraction. 

Title: Adversarial Skill Networks: Unsupervised Robot Skill Learning from Video
Abstract:  Key challenges for the deployment of reinforcement learning (RL) agents in the real world are the discovery, representation and reuse of skills in the absence of a reward function. To this end, we propose a novel approach to learn a task-agnostic skill embedding space from unlabeled multi-view videos. Our method learns a general skill embedding independently from the task context by using an adversarial loss. We combine a metric learning loss, which utilizes temporal video coherence to learn a state representation, with an entropy regularized adversarial skill-transfer loss. The metric learning loss learns a disentangled representation by attracting simultaneous viewpoints of the same observations and repelling visually similar frames from temporal neighbors. The adversarial skill-transfer loss enhances re-usability of learned skill embeddings over multiple task domains. We show that the learned embedding enables training of continuous control policies to solve novel tasks that require the interpolation of previously seen skills. Our extensive evaluation with both simulation and real world data demonstrates the effectiveness of our method in learning transferable skills from unlabeled interaction videos and composing them for new tasks. Code, pretrained models and dataset are available at http://robotskills.cs.uni-freiburg.de 

Title: CalibNet: Geometrically Supervised Extrinsic Calibration using 3D Spatial Transformer Networks
Abstract:  3D LiDARs and 2D cameras are increasingly being used alongside each other in sensor rigs for perception tasks. Before these sensors can be used to gather meaningful data, however, their extrinsics (and intrinsics) need to be accurately calibrated, as the performance of the sensor rig is extremely sensitive to these calibration parameters. A vast majority of existing calibration techniques require significant amounts of data and/or calibration targets and human effort, severely impacting their applicability in large-scale production systems. We address this gap with CalibNet: a self-supervised deep network capable of automatically estimating the 6-DoF rigid body transformation between a 3D LiDAR and a 2D camera in real-time. CalibNet alleviates the need for calibration targets, thereby resulting in significant savings in calibration efforts. During training, the network only takes as input a LiDAR point cloud, the corresponding monocular image, and the camera calibration matrix K. At train time, we do not impose direct supervision (i.e., we do not directly regress to the calibration parameters, for example). Instead, we train the network to predict calibration parameters that maximize the geometric and photometric consistency of the input images and point clouds. CalibNet learns to iteratively solve the underlying geometric problem and accurately predicts extrinsic calibration parameters for a wide range of mis-calibrations, without requiring retraining or domain adaptation. The project page is hosted at https://epiception.github.io/CalibNet 

Title: No-Regret Replanning under Uncertainty
Abstract:  This paper explores the problem of path planning under uncertainty. Specifically, we consider online receding horizon based planners that need to operate in a latent environment where the latent information can be modeled via Gaussian Processes. Online path planning in latent environments is challenging since the robot needs to explore the environment to get a more accurate model of latent information for better planning later and also achieves the task as quick as possible. We propose UCB style algorithms that are popular in the bandit settings and show how those analyses can be adapted to the online robotic path planning problems. The proposed algorithm trades-off exploration and exploitation in near-optimal manner and has appealing no-regret properties. We demonstrate the efficacy of the framework on the application of aircraft flight path planning when the winds are partially observed. 

Title: Generalized Regressive Motion: a Visual Cue to Collision
Abstract:  Brains and sensory systems evolved to guide motion. Central to this task is controlling the approach to stationary obstacles and detecting moving organisms. Looming has been proposed as the main monocular visual cue for detecting the approach of other animals and avoiding collisions with stationary obstacles. Elegant neural mechanisms for looming detection have been found in the brain of insects and vertebrates. However, looming has not been analyzed in the context of collisions between two moving animals. We propose an alternative strategy, Generalized Regressive Motion (GRM), which is consistent with recently observed behavior in fruit flies. Geometric analysis proves that GRM is a reliable cue to collision among conspecifics, whereas agent-based modeling suggests that GRM is a better cue than looming as a means to detect approach, prevent collisions and maintain mobility. 

Title: Self learning robot using real-time neural networks
Abstract:  With the advancements in high volume, low precision computational technology and applied research on cognitive artificially intelligent heuristic systems, machine learning solutions through neural networks with real-time learning has seen an immense interest in the research community as well the industry. This paper involves research, development and experimental analysis of a neural network implemented on a robot with an arm through which evolves to learn to walk in a straight line or as required. The neural network learns using the algorithms of Gradient Descent and Backpropagation. Both the implementation and training of the neural network is done locally on the robot on a raspberry pi 3 so that its learning process is completely independent. The neural network is first tested on a custom simulator developed on MATLAB and then implemented on the raspberry computer. Data at each generation of the evolving network is stored, and analysis both mathematical and graphical is done on the data. Impact of factors like the learning rate and error tolerance on the learning process and final output is analyzed. 

Title: Target-less registration of point clouds: A review
Abstract:  Point cloud registration has been one of the basic steps of point cloud processing, which has a lot of applications in remote sensing and robotics. In this report, we summarized the basic workflow of target-less point cloud registration,namely correspondence determination and transformation estimation. Then we reviewed three commonly used groups of registration approaches, namely the feature matching based methods, the iterative closest points algorithm and the randomly hypothesis and verify based methods. Besides, we analyzed the advantage and disadvantage of these methods are introduced their common application scenarios. At last, we discussed the challenges of current point cloud registration methods and proposed several open questions for the future development of automatic registration approaches. 

Title: RoboNet: Large-Scale Multi-Robot Learning
Abstract:  Robot learning has emerged as a promising tool for taming the complexity and diversity of the real world. Methods based on high-capacity models, such as deep networks, hold the promise of providing effective generalization to a wide range of open-world environments. However, these same methods typically require large amounts of diverse training data to generalize effectively. In contrast, most robotic learning experiments are small-scale, single-domain, and single-robot. This leads to a frequent tension in robotic learning: how can we learn generalizable robotic controllers without having to collect impractically large amounts of data for each separate experiment? In this paper, we propose RoboNet, an open database for sharing robotic experience, which provides an initial pool of 15 million video frames, from 7 different robot platforms, and study how it can be used to learn generalizable models for vision-based robotic manipulation. We combine the dataset with two different learning algorithms: visual foresight, which uses forward video prediction models, and supervised inverse models. Our experiments test the learned algorithms' ability to work across new objects, new tasks, new scenes, new camera viewpoints, new grippers, or even entirely new robots. In our final experiment, we find that by pre-training on RoboNet and fine-tuning on data from a held-out Franka or Kuka robot, we can exceed the performance of a robot-specific training approach that uses 4x-20x more data. For videos and data, see the project webpage: https://www.robonet.wiki/ 

Title: RIDM: Reinforced Inverse Dynamics Modeling for Learning from a Single Observed Demonstration
Abstract:  Augmenting reinforcement learning with imitation learning is often hailed as a method by which to improve upon learning from scratch. However, most existing methods for integrating these two techniques are subject to several strong assumptions---chief among them that information about demonstrator actions is available. In this paper, we investigate the extent to which this assumption is necessary by introducing and evaluating reinforced inverse dynamics modeling (RIDM), a novel paradigm for combining imitation from observation (IfO) and reinforcement learning with no dependence on demonstrator action information. Moreover, RIDM requires only a single demonstration trajectory and is able to operate directly on raw (unaugmented) state features. We find experimentally that RIDM performs favorably compared to a baseline approach for several tasks in simulation as well as for tasks on a real UR5 robot arm. Experiment videos can be found at https://sites.google.com/view/ridm-reinforced-inverse-dynami. 

Title: Actor-Critic Reinforcement Learning for Control with Stability Guarantee
Abstract:  Reinforcement Learning (RL) and its integration with deep learning have achieved impressive performance in various robotic control tasks, ranging from motion planning and navigation to end-to-end visual manipulation. However, stability is not guaranteed in model-free RL by solely using data. From a control-theoretic perspective, stability is the most important property for any control system, since it is closely related to safety, robustness, and reliability of robotic systems. In this paper, we propose an actor-critic RL framework for control which can guarantee closed-loop stability by employing the classic Lyapunov's method in control theory. First of all, a data-based stability theorem is proposed for stochastic nonlinear systems modeled by Markov decision process. Then we show that the stability condition could be exploited as the critic in the actor-critic RL to learn a controller/policy. At last, the effectiveness of our approach is evaluated on several well-known 3-dimensional robot control tasks and a synthetic biology gene network tracking task in three different popular physics simulation platforms. As an empirical evaluation on the advantage of stability, we show that the learned policies can enable the systems to recover to the equilibrium or way-points when interfered by uncertainties such as system parametric variations and external disturbances to a certain extent. 

Title: Perception-aware time optimal path parameterization for quadrotors
Abstract:  The increasing popularity of quadrotors has given rise to a class of predominantly vision-driven vehicles. This paper addresses the problem of perception-aware time optimal path parametrization for quadrotors. Although many different choices of perceptual modalities are available, the low weight and power budgets of quadrotor systems makes a camera ideal for on-board navigation and estimation algorithms. However, this does come with a set of challenges. The limited field of view of the camera can restrict the visibility of salient regions in the environment, which dictates the necessity to consider perception and planning jointly. The main contribution of this paper is an efficient time optimal path parametrization algorithm for quadrotors with limited field of view constraints. We show in a simulation study that a state-of-the-art controller can track planned trajectories, and we validate the proposed algorithm on a quadrotor platform in experiments. 

Title: Multispecies fruit flower detection using a refined semantic segmentation network
Abstract:  In fruit production, critical crop management decisions are guided by bloom intensity, i.e., the number of flowers present in an orchard. Despite its importance, bloom intensity is still typically estimated by means of human visual inspection. Existing automated computer vision systems for flower identification are based on hand-engineered techniques that work only under specific conditions and with limited performance. This work proposes an automated technique for flower identification that is robust to uncontrolled environments and applicable to different flower species. Our method relies on an end-to-end residual convolutional neural network (CNN) that represents the state-of-the-art in semantic segmentation. To enhance its sensitivity to flowers, we fine-tune this network using a single dataset of apple flower images. Since CNNs tend to produce coarse segmentations, we employ a refinement method to better distinguish between individual flower instances. Without any pre-processing or dataset-specific training, experimental results on images of apple, peach and pear flowers, acquired under different conditions demonstrate the robustness and broad applicability of our method. 

Title: Filter Early, Match Late: Improving Network-Based Visual Place Recognition
Abstract:  CNNs have excelled at performing place recognition over time, particularly when the neural network is optimized for localization in the current environmental conditions. In this paper we investigate the concept of feature map filtering, where, rather than using all the activations within a convolutional tensor, only the most useful activations are used. Since specific feature maps encode different visual features, the objective is to remove feature maps that are detract from the ability to recognize a location across appearance changes. Our key innovation is to filter the feature maps in an early convolutional layer, but then continue to run the network and extract a feature vector using a later layer in the same network. By filtering early visual features and extracting a feature vector from a higher, more viewpoint invariant later layer, we demonstrate improved condition and viewpoint invariance. Our approach requires image pairs for training from the deployment environment, but we show that state-of-the-art performance can regularly be achieved with as little as a single training image pair. An exhaustive experimental analysis is performed to determine the full scope of causality between early layer filtering and late layer extraction. For validity, we use three datasets: Oxford RobotCar, Nordland, and Gardens Point, achieving overall superior performance to NetVLAD. The work provides a number of new avenues for exploring CNN optimizations, without full re-training. 

Title: Modeling Engagement in Long-Term, In-Home Socially Assistive Robot Interventions for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorders
Abstract:  Socially assistive robotics (SAR) has great potential to provide accessible, affordable, and personalized therapeutic interventions for children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). However, human-robot interaction (HRI) methods are still limited in their ability to autonomously recognize and respond to behavioral cues, especially in atypical users and everyday settings. This work applies supervised machine learning algorithms to model user engagement in the context of long-term, in-home SAR interventions for children with ASD. Specifically, we present two types of engagement models for each user: (i) generalized models trained on data from different users; and (ii) individualized models trained on an early subset of the user's data. The models achieved approximately 90% accuracy (AUROC) for post hoc binary classification of engagement, despite the high variance in data observed across users, sessions, and engagement states. Moreover, temporal patterns in model predictions could be used to reliably initiate re-engagement actions at appropriate times. These results validate the feasibility and challenges of recognition and response to user disengagement in long-term, real-world HRI settings. The contributions of this work also inform the design of engaging and personalized HRI, especially for the ASD community. 

Title: PCN: Point Completion Network
Abstract:  Shape completion, the problem of estimating the complete geometry of objects from partial observations, lies at the core of many vision and robotics applications. In this work, we propose Point Completion Network (PCN), a novel learning-based approach for shape completion. Unlike existing shape completion methods, PCN directly operates on raw point clouds without any structural assumption (e.g. symmetry) or annotation (e.g. semantic class) about the underlying shape. It features a decoder design that enables the generation of fine-grained completions while maintaining a small number of parameters. Our experiments show that PCN produces dense, complete point clouds with realistic structures in the missing regions on inputs with various levels of incompleteness and noise, including cars from LiDAR scans in the KITTI dataset. 

Title: Efficient Intrinsically Motivated Robotic Grasping with Learning-Adaptive Imagination in Latent Space
Abstract:  Combining model-based and model-free deep reinforcement learning has shown great promise for improving sample efficiency on complex control tasks while still retaining high performance. Incorporating imagination is a recent effort in this direction inspired by human mental simulation of motor behavior. We propose a learning-adaptive imagination approach which, unlike previous approaches, takes into account the reliability of the learned dynamics model used for imagining the future. Our approach learns an ensemble of disjoint local dynamics models in latent space and derives an intrinsic reward based on learning progress, motivating the controller to take actions leading to data that improves the models. The learned models are used to generate imagined experiences, augmenting the training set of real experiences. We evaluate our approach on learning vision-based robotic grasping and show that it significantly improves sample efficiency and achieves near-optimal performance in a sparse reward environment. 

Title: TEASER: Fast and Certifiable Point Cloud Registration
Abstract:  We propose the first fast and certifiable algorithm for the registration of two sets of 3D points in the presence of large amounts of outlier correspondences. Towards this goal, we first reformulate the registration problem using a Truncated Least Squares (TLS) cost that makes the estimation insensitive to spurious correspondences. Then, we provide a general graph-theoretic framework to decouple scale, rotation, and translation estimation, which allows solving in cascade for the three transformations. Despite the fact that each subproblem is still non-convex and combinatorial in nature, we show that (i) TLS scale and (component-wise) translation estimation can be solved in polynomial time via an adaptive voting scheme, (ii) TLS rotation estimation can be relaxed to a semidefinite program (SDP) and the relaxation is tight, even in the presence of extreme outlier rates. We name the resulting algorithm TEASER (Truncated least squares Estimation And SEmidefinite Relaxation). While solving large SDP relaxations is typically slow, we develop a second certifiable algorithm, named TEASER++, that circumvents the need to solve an SDP and runs in milliseconds. For both algorithms, we provide theoretical bounds on the estimation errors, which are the first of their kind for robust registration problems. Moreover, we test their performance on standard benchmarks, object detection datasets, and the 3DMatch scan matching dataset, and show that (i) both algorithms dominate the state of the art (e.g., RANSAC, branch-&-bound, heuristics) and are robust to more than 99% outliers, (ii) TEASER++ can run in milliseconds and it is currently the fastest robust registration algorithm, (iii) TEASER++ is so robust it can also solve problems without correspondences (e.g., hypothesizing all-to-all correspondences) where it largely outperforms ICP. We release a fast open-source C++ implementation of TEASER++. 

Title: Deep Learning Based Robot for Automatically Picking up Garbage on the Grass
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel garbage pickup robot which operates on the grass. The robot is able to detect the garbage accurately and autonomously by using a deep neural network for garbage recognition. In addition, with the ground segmentation using a deep neural network, a novel navigation strategy is proposed to guide the robot to move around. With the garbage recognition and automatic navigation functions, the robot can clean garbage on the ground in places like parks or schools efficiently and autonomously. Experimental results show that the garbage recognition accuracy can reach as high as 95%, and even without path planning, the navigation strategy can reach almost the same cleaning efficiency with traditional methods. Thus, the proposed robot can serve as a good assistance to relieve dustman's physical labor on garbage cleaning tasks. 

Title: When We First Met: Visual-Inertial Person Localization for Co-Robot Rendezvous
Abstract:  We aim to enable robots to visually localize a target person through the aid of an additional sensing modality -- the target person's 3D inertial measurements. The need for such technology may arise when a robot is to meet person in a crowd for the first time or when an autonomous vehicle must rendezvous with a rider amongst a crowd without knowing the appearance of the person in advance. A person's inertial information can be measured with a wearable device such as a smart-phone and can be shared selectively with an autonomous system during the rendezvous. We propose a method to learn a visual-inertial feature space in which the motion of a person in video can be easily matched to the motion measured by a wearable inertial measurement unit (IMU). The transformation of the two modalities into the joint feature space is learned through the use of a contrastive loss which forces inertial motion features and video motion features generated by the same person to lie close in the joint feature space. To validate our approach, we compose a dataset of over 60,000 video segments of moving people along with wearable IMU data. Our experiments show that our proposed method is able to accurately localize a target person with 80.7% accuracy using only 5 seconds of IMU data and video. 

Title: Learning to Grasp from 2.5D images: a Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) solution to the grasping problem using 2.5D images as the only source of information. In particular, we developed a simulated environment where a robot equipped with a vacuum gripper has the aim of reaching blocks with planar surfaces. These blocks can have different dimensions, shapes, position and orientation. Unity 3D allowed us to simulate a real-world setup, where a depth camera is placed in a fixed position and the stream of images is used by our policy network to learn how to solve the task. We explored different DRL algorithms and problem configurations. The experiments demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed DRL algorithm applied to grasp tasks guided by visual depth camera inputs. When using the proper policy, the proposed method estimates a robot tool configuration that reaches the object surface with negligible position and orientation errors. This is, to the best of our knowledge, the first successful attempt of using 2.5D images only as of the input of a DRL algorithm, to solve the grasping problem regressing 3D world coordinates. 

Title: Detection and Tracking of General Movable Objects in Large 3D Maps
Abstract:  This paper studies the problem of detection and tracking of general objects with long-term dynamics, observed by a mobile robot moving in a large environment. A key problem is that due to the environment scale, it can only observe a subset of the objects at any given time. Since some time passes between observations of objects in different places, the objects might be moved when the robot is not there. We propose a model for this movement in which the objects typically only move locally, but with some small probability they jump longer distances, through what we call global motion. For filtering, we decompose the posterior over local and global movements into two linked processes. The posterior over the global movements and measurement associations is sampled, while we track the local movement analytically using Kalman filters. This novel filter is evaluated on point cloud data gathered autonomously by a mobile robot over an extended period of time. We show that tracking jumping objects is feasible, and that the proposed probabilistic treatment outperforms previous methods when applied to real world data. The key to efficient probabilistic tracking in this scenario is focused sampling of the object posteriors. 

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning with Linear Quadratic Regulator Regions
Abstract:  Practitioners often rely on compute-intensive domain randomization to ensure reinforcement learning policies trained in simulation can robustly transfer to the real world. Due to unmodeled nonlinearities in the real system, however, even such simulated policies can still fail to perform stably enough to acquire experience in real environments. In this paper we propose a novel method that guarantees a stable region of attraction for the output of a policy trained in simulation, even for highly nonlinear systems. Our core technique is to use "bias-shifted" neural networks for constructing the controller and training the network in the simulator. The modified neural networks not only capture the nonlinearities of the system but also provably preserve linearity in a certain region of the state space and thus can be tuned to resemble a linear quadratic regulator that is known to be stable for the real system. We have tested our new method by transferring simulated policies for a swing-up inverted pendulum to real systems and demonstrated its efficacy. 

Title: Learning to Slide Unknown Objects with Differentiable Physics Simulations
Abstract:  We propose a new technique for pushing an unknown object from an initial configuration to a goal configuration with stability constraints. The proposed method leverages recent progress in differentiable physics models to learn unknown mechanical properties of pushed objects, such as their distributions of mass and coefficients of friction. The proposed learning technique computes the gradient of the distance between predicted poses of objects and their actual observed poses and utilizes that gradient to search for values of the mechanical properties that reduce the reality gap. The proposed approach is also utilized to optimize a policy to efficiently push an object toward the desired goal configuration. Experiments with real objects using a real robot to gather data show that the proposed approach can identify the mechanical properties of heterogeneous objects from a small number of pushing actions. 

Title: Pedestrian Action Anticipation using Contextual Feature Fusion in Stacked RNNs
Abstract:  One of the major challenges for autonomous vehicles in urban environments is to understand and predict other road users' actions, in particular, pedestrians at the point of crossing. The common approach to solving this problem is to use the motion history of the agents to predict their future trajectories. However, pedestrians exhibit highly variable actions most of which cannot be understood without visual observation of the pedestrians themselves and their surroundings. To this end, we propose a solution for the problem of pedestrian action anticipation at the point of crossing. Our approach uses a novel stacked RNN architecture in which information collected from various sources, both scene dynamics and visual features, is gradually fused into the network at different levels of processing. We show, via extensive empirical evaluations, that the proposed algorithm achieves a higher prediction accuracy compared to alternative recurrent network architectures. We conduct experiments to investigate the impact of the length of observation, time to event and types of features on the performance of the proposed method. Finally, we demonstrate how different data fusion strategies impact prediction accuracy. 

Title: Learning Efficient Representation for Intrinsic Motivation
Abstract:  Mutual Information between agent Actions and environment States (MIAS) quantifies the influence of agent on its environment. Recently, it was found that the maximization of MIAS can be used as an intrinsic motivation for artificial agents. In literature, the term empowerment is used to represent the maximum of MIAS at a certain state. While empowerment has been shown to solve a broad range of reinforcement learning problems, its calculation in arbitrary dynamics is a challenging problem because it relies on the estimation of mutual information. Existing approaches, which rely on sampling, are limited to low dimensional spaces, because high-confidence distribution-free lower bounds for mutual information require exponential number of samples. In this work, we develop a novel approach for the estimation of empowerment in unknown dynamics from visual observation only, without the need to sample for MIAS. The core idea is to represent the relation between action sequences and future states using a stochastic dynamic model in latent space with a specific form. This allows us to efficiently compute empowerment with the "Water-Filling" algorithm from information theory. We construct this embedding with deep neural networks trained on a sophisticated objective function. Our experimental results show that the designed embedding preserves information-theoretic properties of the original dynamics. 

Title: Euclideanizing Flows: Diffeomorphic Reduction for Learning Stable Dynamical Systems
Abstract:  Robotic tasks often require motions with complex geometric structures. We present an approach to learn such motions from a limited number of human demonstrations by exploiting the regularity properties of human motions e.g. stability, smoothness, and boundedness. The complex motions are encoded as rollouts of a stable dynamical system, which, under a change of coordinates defined by a diffeomorphism, is equivalent to a simple, hand-specified dynamical system. As an immediate result of using diffeomorphisms, the stability property of the hand-specified dynamical system directly carry over to the learned dynamical system. Inspired by recent works in density estimation, we propose to represent the diffeomorphism as a composition of simple parameterized diffeomorphisms. Additional structure is imposed to provide guarantees on the smoothness of the generated motions. The efficacy of this approach is demonstrated through validation on an established benchmark as well demonstrations collected on a real-world robotic system. 

Title: Investigating the Importance of Shape Features, Color Constancy, Color Spaces and Similarity Measures in Open-Ended 3D Object Recognition
Abstract:  Despite the recent success of state-of-the-art 3D object recognition approaches, service robots are frequently failed to recognize many objects in real human-centric environments. For these robots, object recognition is a challenging task due to the high demand for accurate and real-time response under changing and unpredictable environmental conditions. Most of the recent approaches use either the shape information only and ignore the role of color information or vice versa. Furthermore, they mainly utilize the $L_n$ Minkowski family functions to measure the similarity of two object views, while there are various distance measures that are applicable to compare two object views. In this paper, we explore the importance of shape information, color constancy, color spaces, and various similarity measures in open-ended 3D object recognition. Towards this goal, we extensively evaluate the performance of object recognition approaches in three different configurations, including \textit{color-only}, \textit{shape-only}, and \textit{ combinations of color and shape}, in both offline and online settings. Experimental results concerning scalability, memory usage, and object recognition performance show that all of the \textit{combinations of color and shape} yields significant improvements over the \textit{shape-only} and \textit{color-only} approaches. The underlying reason is that color information is an important feature to distinguish objects that have very similar geometric properties with different colors and vice versa. Moreover, by combining color and shape information, we demonstrate that the robot can learn new object categories from very few training examples in a real-world setting. 

Title: Visual Mesh: Real-time Object Detection Using Constant Sample Density
Abstract:  This paper proposes an enhancement of convolutional neural networks for object detection in resource-constrained robotics through a geometric input transformation called Visual Mesh. It uses object geometry to create a graph in vision space, reducing computational complexity by normalizing the pixel and feature density of objects. The experiments compare the Visual Mesh with several other fast convolutional neural networks. The results demonstrate execution times sixteen times quicker than the fastest competitor tested, while achieving outstanding accuracy. 

Title: TraMNet - Transition Matrix Network for Efficient Action Tube Proposals
Abstract:  Current state-of-the-art methods solve spatiotemporal action localisation by extending 2D anchors to 3D-cuboid proposals on stacks of frames, to generate sets of temporally connected bounding boxes called \textit{action micro-tubes}. However, they fail to consider that the underlying anchor proposal hypotheses should also move (transition) from frame to frame, as the actor or the camera does. Assuming we evaluate $n$ 2D anchors in each frame, then the number of possible transitions from each 2D anchor to the next, for a sequence of $f$ consecutive frames, is in the order of $O(n^f)$, expensive even for small values of $f$. To avoid this problem, we introduce a Transition-Matrix-based Network (TraMNet) which relies on computing transition probabilities between anchor proposals while maximising their overlap with ground truth bounding boxes across frames, and enforcing sparsity via a transition threshold. As the resulting transition matrix is sparse and stochastic, this reduces the proposal hypothesis search space from $O(n^f)$ to the cardinality of the thresholded matrix. At training time, transitions are specific to cell locations of the feature maps, so that a sparse (efficient) transition matrix is used to train the network. At test time, a denser transition matrix can be obtained either by decreasing the threshold or by adding to it all the relative transitions originating from any cell location, allowing the network to handle transitions in the test data that might not have been present in the training data, and making detection translation-invariant. Finally, we show that our network can handle sparse annotations such as those available in the DALY dataset. We report extensive experiments on the DALY, UCF101-24 and Transformed-UCF101-24 datasets to support our claims. 

Title: Self-supervised Learning of Image Embedding for Continuous Control
Abstract:  Operating directly from raw high dimensional sensory inputs like images is still a challenge for robotic control. Recently, Reinforcement Learning methods have been proposed to solve specific tasks end-to-end, from pixels to torques. However, these approaches assume the access to a specified reward which may require specialized instrumentation of the environment. Furthermore, the obtained policy and representations tend to be task specific and may not transfer well. In this work we investigate completely self-supervised learning of a general image embedding and control primitives, based on finding the shortest time to reach any state. We also introduce a new structure for the state-action value function that builds a connection between model-free and model-based methods, and improves the performance of the learning algorithm. We experimentally demonstrate these findings in three simulated robotic tasks. 

Title: Barrier-Certified Adaptive Reinforcement Learning with Applications to Brushbot Navigation
Abstract:  This paper presents a safe learning framework that employs an adaptive model learning algorithm together with barrier certificates for systems with possibly nonstationary agent dynamics. To extract the dynamic structure of the model, we use a sparse optimization technique. We use the learned model in combination with control barrier certificates which constrain policies (feedback controllers) in order to maintain safety, which refers to avoiding particular undesirable regions of the state space. Under certain conditions, recovery of safety in the sense of Lyapunov stability after violations of safety due to the nonstationarity is guaranteed. In addition, we reformulate an action-value function approximation to make any kernel-based nonlinear function estimation method applicable to our adaptive learning framework. Lastly, solutions to the barrier-certified policy optimization are guaranteed to be globally optimal, ensuring the greedy policy improvement under mild conditions. The resulting framework is validated via simulations of a quadrotor, which has previously been used under stationarity assumptions in the safe learnings literature, and is then tested on a real robot, the brushbot, whose dynamics is unknown, highly complex and nonstationary. 

Title: MLR (Memory, Learning and Recognition): A General Cognitive Model -- applied to Intelligent Robots and Systems Control
Abstract:  This paper introduces a new perspective of intelligent robots and systems control. The presented and proposed cognitive model: Memory, Learning and Recognition (MLR), is an effort to bridge the gap between Robotics, AI, Cognitive Science, and Neuroscience. The currently existing gap prevents us from integrating the current advancement and achievements of these four research fields which are actively trying to define intelligence in either application-based way or in generic way. This cognitive model defines intelligence more specifically, parametrically and detailed. The proposed MLR model helps us create a general control model for robots and systems independent of their application domains and platforms since it is mainly based on the dataset provided for robots and systems controls. This paper is mainly proposing and introducing this concept and trying to prove this concept in a small scale, firstly through experimentation. The proposed concept is also applicable to other different platforms in real-time as well as in simulation. 

Title: Improving Task-Parameterised Movement Learning Generalisation with Frame-Weighted Trajectory Generation
Abstract:  Learning from Demonstration depends on a robot learner generalising its learned model to unseen conditions, as it is not feasible for a person to provide a demonstration set that accounts for all possible variations in non-trivial tasks. While there are many learning methods that can handle interpolation of observed data effectively, extrapolation from observed data offers a much greater challenge. To address this problem of generalisation, this paper proposes a modified Task-Parameterised Gaussian Mixture Regression method that considers the relevance of task parameters during trajectory generation, as determined by variance in the data. The benefits of the proposed method are first explored using a simulated reaching task data set. Here it is shown that the proposed method offers far-reaching, low-error extrapolation abilities that are different in nature to existing learning methods. Data collected from novice users for a real-world manipulation task is then considered, where it is shown that the proposed method is able to effectively reduce grasping performance errors by ${\sim30\%}$ and extrapolate to unseen grasp targets under real-world conditions. These results indicate the proposed method serves to benefit novice users by placing less reliance on the user to provide high quality demonstration data sets. 

Title: Plan Arithmetic: Compositional Plan Vectors for Multi-Task Control
Abstract:  Autonomous agents situated in real-world environments must be able to master large repertoires of skills. While a single short skill can be learned quickly, it would be impractical to learn every task independently. Instead, the agent should share knowledge across behaviors such that each task can be learned efficiently, and such that the resulting model can generalize to new tasks, especially ones that are compositions or subsets of tasks seen previously. A policy conditioned on a goal or demonstration has the potential to share knowledge between tasks if it sees enough diversity of inputs. However, these methods may not generalize to a more complex task at test time. We introduce compositional plan vectors (CPVs) to enable a policy to perform compositions of tasks without additional supervision. CPVs represent trajectories as the sum of the subtasks within them. We show that CPVs can be learned within a one-shot imitation learning framework without any additional supervision or information about task hierarchy, and enable a demonstration-conditioned policy to generalize to tasks that sequence twice as many skills as the tasks seen during training. Analogously to embeddings such as word2vec in NLP, CPVs can also support simple arithmetic operations -- for example, we can add the CPVs for two different tasks to command an agent to compose both tasks, without any additional training. 

Title: A New Tensioning Method using Deep Reinforcement Learning for Surgical Pattern Cutting
Abstract:  Surgeons normally need surgical scissors and tissue grippers to cut through a deformable surgical tissue. The cutting accuracy depends on the skills to manipulate these two tools. Such skills are part of basic surgical skills training as in the Fundamentals of Laparoscopic Surgery. The gripper is used to pinch a point on the surgical sheet and pull the tissue to a certain direction to maintain the tension while the scissors cut through a trajectory. As the surgical materials are deformable, it requires a comprehensive tensioning policy to yield appropriate tensioning direction at each step of the cutting process. Automating a tensioning policy for a given cutting trajectory will support not only the human surgeons but also the surgical robots to improve the cutting accuracy and reliability. This paper presents a multiple pinch point approach to modelling an autonomous tensioning planner based on a deep reinforcement learning algorithm. Experiments on a simulator show that the proposed method is superior to existing methods in terms of both performance and robustness. 

Title: A data-efficient geometrically inspired polynomial kernel for robot inverse dynamics
Abstract:  In this paper, we introduce a novel data-driven inverse dynamics estimator based on Gaussian Process Regression. Driven by the fact that the inverse dynamics can be described as a polynomial function on a suitable input space, we propose the use of a novel kernel, called Geometrically Inspired Polynomial Kernel (GIP). The resulting estimator behaves similarly to model-based approaches as concerns data efficiency. Indeed, we proved that the GIP kernel defines a finite-dimensional Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space that contains the inverse dynamics function computed through the Rigid Body Dynamics. The proposed kernel is based on the recently introduced Multiplicative Polynomial Kernel, a redefinition of the classical polynomial kernel equipped with a set of parameters that allows for a higher regularization. We tested the proposed approach in a simulated environment, and also in real experiments with a UR10 robot. The obtained results confirm that, compared to other data-driven estimators, the proposed approach is more data-efficient and exhibits better generalization properties. Instead, with respect to model-based estimators, our approach requires less prior information and is not affected by model bias. 

Title: DexPilot: Vision Based Teleoperation of Dexterous Robotic Hand-Arm System
Abstract:  Teleoperation offers the possibility of imparting robotic systems with sophisticated reasoning skills, intuition, and creativity to perform tasks. However, current teleoperation solutions for high degree-of-actuation (DoA), multi-fingered robots are generally cost-prohibitive, while low-cost offerings usually provide reduced degrees of control. Herein, a low-cost, vision based teleoperation system, DexPilot, was developed that allows for complete control over the full 23 DoA robotic system by merely observing the bare human hand. DexPilot enables operators to carry out a variety of complex manipulation tasks that go beyond simple pick-and-place operations. This allows for collection of high dimensional, multi-modality, state-action data that can be leveraged in the future to learn sensorimotor policies for challenging manipulation tasks. The system performance was measured through speed and reliability metrics across two human demonstrators on a variety of tasks. The videos of the experiments can be found at https://sites.google.com/view/dex-pilot. 

Title: Balancing Domain Gap for Object Instance Detection
Abstract:  Object instance detection in cluttered indoor environment is a core functionality for service robots. We can readily build a detection system by following recent successful strategy of deep convolutional neural networks, if we have a large annotated dataset. However, it is hard to prepare such a huge dataset in instance detection problem where only small number of samples are available. This is one of main impediment to deploying an object detection system. To overcome this obstacle, many approaches to generate synthetic dataset have been proposed. These approaches confront the domain gap or reality gap problem stems from discrepancy between source domain (synthetic training dataset) and target domain (real test dataset). In this paper, we propose a simple approach to generate a synthetic dataset with minimum human effort. Especially, we identify that domain gaps of foreground and background are unbalanced and propose methods to balance these gaps. In the experiment, we verify that our methods help domain gaps to balance and improve the accuracy of object instance detection in cluttered indoor environment. 

Title: Fusion of Real Time Thermal Image and 1D/2D/3D Depth Laser Readings for Remote Thermal Sensing in Industrial Plants by Means of UAVs and/or Robots
Abstract:  This paper presents fast procedures for thermal infrared remote sensing in dark, GPS-denied environments, such as those found in industrial plants such as in High-Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) converter stations. These procedures are based on the combination of the depth estimation obtained from either a 1-Dimensional LIDAR laser or a 2-Dimensional Hokuyo laser or a 3D MultiSense SLB laser sensor and the visible and thermal cameras from a FLIR Duo R dual-sensor thermal camera. The combination of these sensors/cameras is suitable to be mounted on Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) and/or robots in order to provide reliable information about the potential malfunctions, which can be found within the hazardous environment. For example, the capabilities of the developed software and hardware system corresponding to the combination of the 1-D LIDAR sensor and the FLIR Duo R dual-sensor thermal camera is assessed from the point of the accuracy of results and the required computational times: the obtained computational times are under 10 ms, with a maximum localization error of 8 mm and an average standard deviation for the measured temperatures of 1.11 degree Celsius, which results are obtained for a number of test cases. The paper is structured as follows: the description of the system used for identification and localization of hotspots in industrial plants is presented in section II. In section III, the method for faults identification and localization in plants by using a 1-Dimensional LIDAR laser sensor and thermal images is described together with results. In section IV the real time thermal image processing is presented. Fusion of the 2-Dimensional depth laser Hokuyo and the thermal images is described in section V. In section VI the combination of the 3D MultiSense SLB laser and thermal images is described. In section VII a discussion and several conclusions are drawn. 

Title: Training an adaptive dialogue policy for interactive learning of visually grounded word meanings
Abstract:  We present a multi-modal dialogue system for interactive learning of perceptually grounded word meanings from a human tutor. The system integrates an incremental, semantic parsing/generation framework - Dynamic Syntax and Type Theory with Records (DS-TTR) - with a set of visual classifiers that are learned throughout the interaction and which ground the meaning representations that it produces. We use this system in interaction with a simulated human tutor to study the effects of different dialogue policies and capabilities on the accuracy of learned meanings, learning rates, and efforts/costs to the tutor. We show that the overall performance of the learning agent is affected by (1) who takes initiative in the dialogues; (2) the ability to express/use their confidence level about visual attributes; and (3) the ability to process elliptical and incrementally constructed dialogue turns. Ultimately, we train an adaptive dialogue policy which optimises the trade-off between classifier accuracy and tutoring costs. 

Title: T-LESS: An RGB-D Dataset for 6D Pose Estimation of Texture-less Objects
Abstract:  We introduce T-LESS, a new public dataset for estimating the 6D pose, i.e. translation and rotation, of texture-less rigid objects. The dataset features thirty industry-relevant objects with no significant texture and no discriminative color or reflectance properties. The objects exhibit symmetries and mutual similarities in shape and/or size. Compared to other datasets, a unique property is that some of the objects are parts of others. The dataset includes training and test images that were captured with three synchronized sensors, specifically a structured-light and a time-of-flight RGB-D sensor and a high-resolution RGB camera. There are approximately 39K training and 10K test images from each sensor. Additionally, two types of 3D models are provided for each object, i.e. a manually created CAD model and a semi-automatically reconstructed one. Training images depict individual objects against a black background. Test images originate from twenty test scenes having varying complexity, which increases from simple scenes with several isolated objects to very challenging ones with multiple instances of several objects and with a high amount of clutter and occlusion. The images were captured from a systematically sampled view sphere around the object/scene, and are annotated with accurate ground truth 6D poses of all modeled objects. Initial evaluation results indicate that the state of the art in 6D object pose estimation has ample room for improvement, especially in difficult cases with significant occlusion. The T-LESS dataset is available online at cmp.felk.cvut.cz/t-less. 

Title: Visual Tactile Fusion Object Clustering
Abstract:  Object clustering, aiming at grouping similar objects into one cluster with an unsupervised strategy, has been extensivelystudied among various data-driven applications. However, most existing state-of-the-art object clustering methods (e.g., single-view or multi-view clustering methods) only explore visual information, while ignoring one of most important sensing modalities, i.e., tactile information which can help capture different object properties and further boost the performance of object clustering task. To effectively benefit both visual and tactile modalities for object clustering, in this paper, we propose a deep Auto-Encoder-like Non-negative Matrix Factorization framework for visual-tactile fusion clustering. Specifically, deep matrix factorization constrained by an under-complete Auto-Encoder-like architecture is employed to jointly learn hierarchical expression of visual-tactile fusion data, and preserve the local structure of data generating distribution of visual and tactile modalities. Meanwhile, a graph regularizer is introduced to capture the intrinsic relations of data samples within each modality. Furthermore, we propose a modality-level consensus regularizer to effectively align thevisual and tactile data in a common subspace in which the gap between visual and tactile data is mitigated. For the model optimization, we present an efficient alternating minimization strategy to solve our proposed model. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments on public datasets to verify the effectiveness of our framework. 

Title: Towards the Safety of Human-in-the-Loop Robotics: Challenges and Opportunities for Safety Assurance of Robotic Co-Workers
Abstract:  The success of the human-robot co-worker team in a flexible manufacturing environment where robots learn from demonstration heavily relies on the correct and safe operation of the robot. How this can be achieved is a challenge that requires addressing both technical as well as human-centric research questions. In this paper we discuss the state of the art in safety assurance, existing as well as emerging standards in this area, and the need for new approaches to safety assurance in the context of learning machines. We then focus on robotic learning from demonstration, the challenges these techniques pose to safety assurance and indicate opportunities to integrate safety considerations into algorithms "by design". Finally, from a human-centric perspective, we stipulate that, to achieve high levels of safety and ultimately trust, the robotic co-worker must meet the innate expectations of the humans it works with. It is our aim to stimulate a discussion focused on the safety aspects of human-in-the-loop robotics, and to foster multidisciplinary collaboration to address the research challenges identified. 

Title: Assistive VR Gym: Interactions with Real People to Improve Virtual Assistive Robots
Abstract:  Versatile robotic caregivers could benefit millions of people worldwide, including older adults and people with disabilities. Recent work has explored how robotic caregivers can learn to interact with people through physics simulations, yet transferring what has been learned to real robots remains challenging. Virtual reality (VR) has the potential to help bridge the gap between simulations and the real world. We present Assistive VR Gym (AVR Gym), which enables real people to interact with virtual assistive robots. We also provide evidence that AVR Gym can help researchers improve the performance of simulation-trained assistive robots with real people. Prior to AVR Gym, we trained robot control policies (Original Policies) solely in simulation for four robotic caregiving tasks (robot-assisted feeding, drinking, itch scratching, and bed bathing) with two simulated robots (PR2 from Willow Garage and Jaco from Kinova). With AVR Gym, we developed Revised Policies based on insights gained from testing the Original policies with real people. Through a formal study with eight participants in AVR Gym, we found that the Original policies performed poorly, the Revised policies performed significantly better, and that improvements to the biomechanical models used to train the Revised policies resulted in simulated people that better match real participants. Notably, participants significantly disagreed that the Original policies were successful at assistance, but significantly agreed that the Revised policies were successful at assistance. Overall, our results suggest that VR can be used to improve the performance of simulation-trained control policies with real people without putting people at risk, thereby serving as a valuable stepping stone to real robotic assistance. 

Title: PPMC RL Training Algorithm: Rough Terrain Intelligent Robots through Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Robots can now learn how to make decisions and control themselves, generalizing learned behaviors to unseen scenarios. In particular, AI powered robots show promise in rough environments like the lunar surface, due to the environmental uncertainties. We address this critical generalization aspect for robot locomotion in rough terrain through a training algorithm we have created called the Path Planning and Motion Control (PPMC) Training Algorithm. This algorithm is coupled with any generic reinforcement learning algorithm to teach robots how to respond to user commands and to travel to designated locations on a single neural network. In this paper, we show that the algorithm works independent of the robot structure, demonstrating that it works on a wheeled rover in addition the past results on a quadruped walking robot. Further, we take several big steps towards real world practicality by introducing a rough highly uneven terrain. Critically, we show through experiments that the robot learns to generalize to new rough terrain maps, retaining a 100% success rate. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper to introduce a generic training algorithm teaching generalized PPMC in rough environments to any robot, with just the use of reinforcement learning. 

Title: Deep UAV Localization with Reference View Rendering
Abstract:  This paper presents a framework for the localization of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) in unstructured environments with the help of deep learning. A real-time rendering engine is introduced that generates optical and depth images given a six Degrees-of-Freedom (DoF) camera pose, camera model, geo-referenced orthoimage, and elevation map. The rendering engine is embedded into a learning-based six-DoF Inverse Compositional Lucas-Kanade (ICLK) algorithm that is able to robustly align the rendered and real-world image taken by the UAV. To learn the alignment under environmental changes, the architecture is trained using maps spanning multiple years at high resolution. The evaluation shows that the deep 6DoF-ICLK algorithm outperforms its non-trainable counterparts by a large margin. To further support the research in this field, the real-time rendering engine and accompanying datasets are released along with this publication. 

Title: Efficient Model Identification for Tensegrity Locomotion
Abstract:  This paper aims to identify in a practical manner unknown physical parameters, such as mechanical models of actuated robot links, which are critical in dynamical robotic tasks. Key features include the use of an off-the-shelf physics engine and the Bayesian optimization framework. The task being considered is locomotion with a high-dimensional, compliant Tensegrity robot. A key insight, in this case, is the need to project the model identification challenge into an appropriate lower dimensional space for efficiency. Comparisons with alternatives indicate that the proposed method can identify the parameters more accurately within the given time budget, which also results in more precise locomotion control. 

Title: Multi-Robot Transfer Learning: A Dynamical System Perspective
Abstract:  Multi-robot transfer learning allows a robot to use data generated by a second, similar robot to improve its own behavior. The potential advantages are reducing the time of training and the unavoidable risks that exist during the training phase. Transfer learning algorithms aim to find an optimal transfer map between different robots. In this paper, we investigate, through a theoretical study of single-input single-output (SISO) systems, the properties of such optimal transfer maps. We first show that the optimal transfer learning map is, in general, a dynamic system. The main contribution of the paper is to provide an algorithm for determining the properties of this optimal dynamic map including its order and regressors (i.e., the variables it depends on). The proposed algorithm does not require detailed knowledge of the robots' dynamics, but relies on basic system properties easily obtainable through simple experimental tests. We validate the proposed algorithm experimentally through an example of transfer learning between two different quadrotor platforms. Experimental results show that an optimal dynamic map, with correct properties obtained from our proposed algorithm, achieves 60-70% reduction of transfer learning error compared to the cases when the data is directly transferred or transferred using an optimal static map. 

Title: Robust and Efficient Relative Pose with a Multi-camera System for Autonomous Vehicle in Highly Dynamic Environments
Abstract:  This paper studies the relative pose problem for autonomous vehicle driving in highly dynamic and possibly cluttered environments. This is a challenging scenario due to the existence of multiple, large, and independently moving objects in the environment, which often leads to excessive portion of outliers and results in erroneous motion estimation. Existing algorithms cannot cope with such situations well. This paper proposes a new algorithm for relative pose using a multi-camera system with multiple non-overlapping individual cameras. The method works robustly even when the numbers of outliers are overwhelming. By exploiting specific prior knowledge of driving scene we have developed an efficient 4-point algorithm for multi-camera relative pose, which admits analytic solutions by solving a polynomial root-finding equation, and runs extremely fast (at about 0.5$u$s per root). When the solver is used in combination with RANSAC, we are able to quickly prune unpromising hypotheses, significantly improve the chance of finding inliers. Experiments on synthetic data have validated the performance of the proposed algorithm. Tests on real data further confirm the method's practical relevance. 

Title: To Follow or not to Follow: Selective Imitation Learning from Observations
Abstract:  Learning from demonstrations is a useful way to transfer a skill from one agent to another. While most imitation learning methods aim to mimic an expert skill by following the demonstration step-by-step, imitating every step in the demonstration often becomes infeasible when the learner and its environment are different from the demonstration. In this paper, we propose a method that can imitate a demonstration composed solely of observations, which may not be reproducible with the current agent. Our method, dubbed selective imitation learning from observations (SILO), selects reachable states in the demonstration and learns how to reach the selected states. Our experiments on both simulated and real robot environments show that our method reliably performs a new task by following a demonstration. Videos and code are available at https://clvrai.com/silo . 

Title: Performance Evaluation of 3D Correspondence Grouping Algorithms
Abstract:  This paper presents a thorough evaluation of several widely-used 3D correspondence grouping algorithms, motived by their significance in vision tasks relying on correct feature correspondences. A good correspondence grouping algorithm is desired to retrieve as many as inliers from initial feature matches, giving a rise in both precision and recall. Towards this rule, we deploy the experiments on three benchmarks respectively addressing shape retrieval, 3D object recognition and point cloud registration scenarios. The variety in application context brings a rich category of nuisances including noise, varying point densities, clutter, occlusion and partial overlaps. It also results to different ratios of inliers and correspondence distributions for comprehensive evaluation. Based on the quantitative outcomes, we give a summarization of the merits/demerits of the evaluated algorithms from both performance and efficiency perspectives. 

Title: GPLAC: Generalizing Vision-Based Robotic Skills using Weakly Labeled Images
Abstract:  We tackle the problem of learning robotic sensorimotor control policies that can generalize to visually diverse and unseen environments. Achieving broad generalization typically requires large datasets, which are difficult to obtain for task-specific interactive processes such as reinforcement learning or learning from demonstration. However, much of the visual diversity in the world can be captured through passively collected datasets of images or videos. In our method, which we refer to as GPLAC (Generalized Policy Learning with Attentional Classifier), we use both interaction data and weakly labeled image data to augment the generalization capacity of sensorimotor policies. Our method combines multitask learning on action selection and an auxiliary binary classification objective, together with a convolutional neural network architecture that uses an attentional mechanism to avoid distractors. We show that pairing interaction data from just a single environment with a diverse dataset of weakly labeled data results in greatly improved generalization to unseen environments, and show that this generalization depends on both the auxiliary objective and the attentional architecture that we propose. We demonstrate our results in both simulation and on a real robotic manipulator, and demonstrate substantial improvement over standard convolutional architectures and domain adaptation methods. 

Title: DS-PASS: Detail-Sensitive Panoramic Annular Semantic Segmentation through SwaftNet for Surrounding Sensing
Abstract:  Semantically interpreting the traffic scene is crucial for autonomous transportation and robotics systems. However, state-of-the-art semantic segmentation pipelines are dominantly designed to work with pinhole cameras and train with narrow Field-of-View (FoV) images. In this sense, the perception capacity is severely limited to offer higher-level confidence for upstream navigation tasks. In this paper, we propose a network adaptation framework to achieve Panoramic Annular Semantic Segmentation (PASS), which allows to re-use conventional pinhole-view image datasets, enabling modern segmentation networks to comfortably adapt to panoramic images. Specifically, we adapt our proposed SwaftNet to enhance the sensitivity to details by implementing attention-based lateral connections between the detail-critical encoder layers and the context-critical decoder layers. We benchmark the performance of efficient segmenters on panoramic segmentation with our extended PASS dataset, demonstrating that the proposed real-time SwaftNet outperforms state-of-the-art efficient networks. Furthermore, we assess real-world performance when deploying the Detail-Sensitive PASS (DS-PASS) system on a mobile robot and an instrumented vehicle, as well as the benefit of panoramic semantics for visual odometry, showing the robustness and potential to support diverse navigational applications. 

Title: SMArT: Training Shallow Memory-aware Transformers for Robotic Explainability
Abstract:  The ability to generate natural language explanations conditioned on the visual perception is a crucial step towards autonomous agents which can explain themselves and communicate with humans. While the research efforts in image and video captioning are giving promising results, this is often done at the expense of the computational requirements of the approaches, limiting their applicability to real contexts. In this paper, we propose a fully-attentive captioning algorithm which can provide state-of-the-art performances on language generation while restricting its computational demands. Our model is inspired by the Transformer model and employs only two Transformer layers in the encoding and decoding stages. Further, it incorporates a novel memory-aware encoding of image regions. Experiments demonstrate that our approach achieves competitive results in terms of caption quality while featuring reduced computational demands. Further, to evaluate its applicability on autonomous agents, we conduct experiments on simulated scenes taken from the perspective of domestic robots. 

Title: Third-Person Visual Imitation Learning via Decoupled Hierarchical Controller
Abstract:  We study a generalized setup for learning from demonstration to build an agent that can manipulate novel objects in unseen scenarios by looking at only a single video of human demonstration from a third-person perspective. To accomplish this goal, our agent should not only learn to understand the intent of the demonstrated third-person video in its context but also perform the intended task in its environment configuration. Our central insight is to enforce this structure explicitly during learning by decoupling what to achieve (intended task) from how to perform it (controller). We propose a hierarchical setup where a high-level module learns to generate a series of first-person sub-goals conditioned on the third-person video demonstration, and a low-level controller predicts the actions to achieve those sub-goals. Our agent acts from raw image observations without any access to the full state information. We show results on a real robotic platform using Baxter for the manipulation tasks of pouring and placing objects in a box. Project video and code are at https://pathak22.github.io/hierarchical-imitation/ 

Title: Low Level Control of a Quadrotor with Deep Model-Based Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Designing effective low-level robot controllers often entail platform-specific implementations that require manual heuristic parameter tuning, significant system knowledge, or long design times. With the rising number of robotic and mechatronic systems deployed across areas ranging from industrial automation to intelligent toys, the need for a general approach to generating low-level controllers is increasing. To address the challenge of rapidly generating low-level controllers, we argue for using model-based reinforcement learning (MBRL) trained on relatively small amounts of automatically generated (i.e., without system simulation) data. In this paper, we explore the capabilities of MBRL on a Crazyflie centimeter-scale quadrotor with rapid dynamics to predict and control at <50Hz. To our knowledge, this is the first use of MBRL for controlled hover of a quadrotor using only on-board sensors, direct motor input signals, and no initial dynamics knowledge. Our controller leverages rapid simulation of a neural network forward dynamics model on a GPU-enabled base station, which then transmits the best current action to the quadrotor firmware via radio. In our experiments, the quadrotor achieved hovering capability of up to 6 seconds with 3 minutes of experimental training data. 

Title: Learning Compact Models for Planning with Exogenous Processes
Abstract:  We address the problem of approximate model minimization for MDPs in which the state is partitioned into endogenous and (much larger) exogenous components. An exogenous state variable is one whose dynamics are independent of the agent's actions. We formalize the mask-learning problem, in which the agent must choose a subset of exogenous state variables to reason about when planning; doing planning in such a reduced state space can often be significantly more efficient than planning in the full model. We then explore the various value functions at play within this setting, and describe conditions under which a policy for a reduced model will be optimal for the full MDP. The analysis leads us to a tractable approximate algorithm that draws upon the notion of mutual information among exogenous state variables. We validate our approach in simulated robotic manipulation domains where a robot is placed in a busy environment, in which there are many other agents also interacting with the objects. Visit http://tinyurl.com/chitnis-exogenous for a supplementary video. 

Title: Sim-to-Real Reinforcement Learning for Deformable Object Manipulation
Abstract:  We have seen much recent progress in rigid object manipulation, but interaction with deformable objects has notably lagged behind. Due to the large configuration space of deformable objects, solutions using traditional modelling approaches require significant engineering work. Perhaps then, bypassing the need for explicit modelling and instead learning the control in an end-to-end manner serves as a better approach? Despite the growing interest in the use of end-to-end robot learning approaches, only a small amount of work has focused on their applicability to deformable object manipulation. Moreover, due to the large amount of data needed to learn these end-to-end solutions, an emerging trend is to learn control policies in simulation and then transfer them over to the real world. To-date, no work has explored whether it is possible to learn and transfer deformable object policies. We believe that if sim-to-real methods are to be employed further, then it should be possible to learn to interact with a wide variety of objects, and not only rigid objects. In this work, we use a combination of state-of-the-art deep reinforcement learning algorithms to solve the problem of manipulating deformable objects (specifically cloth). We evaluate our approach on three tasks --- folding a towel up to a mark, folding a face towel diagonally, and draping a piece of cloth over a hanger. Our agents are fully trained in simulation with domain randomisation, and then successfully deployed in the real world without having seen any real deformable objects. 

Title: Closed-form solution to cooperative visual-inertial structure from motion
Abstract:  This paper considers the problem of visual-inertial sensor fusion in the cooperative case and it provides new theoretical contributions, which regard its observability and its resolvability in closed form. The case of two agents is investigated. Each agent is equipped with inertial sensors (accelerometer and gyroscope) and with a monocular camera. By using the monocular camera, each agent can observe the other agent. No additional camera observations (e.g., of external point features in the environment) are considered. All the inertial sensors are assumed to be affected by a bias. First, the entire observable state is analytically derived. This state includes the absolute scale, the relative velocity between the two agents, the three Euler angles that express the rotation between the two agent frames and all the accelerometer and gyroscope biases. Second, the paper provides the extension of the closed-form solution given in [19] (which holds for a single agent) to the aforementioned cooperative case. The impact of the presence of the bias on the performance of this closed-form solution is investigated. As in the case of a single agent, this performance is significantly sensitive to the presence of a bias on the gyroscope, while, the presence of a bias on the accelerometer is negligible. Finally, a simple and effective method to obtain the gyroscope bias is proposed. Extensive simulations clearly show that the proposed method is successful. It is amazing that, it is possible to automatically retrieve the absolute scale and simultaneously calibrate the gyroscopes not only without any prior knowledge (as in [13]), but also without external point features in the environment. 

Title: Uncertainty-Aware Reinforcement Learning for Collision Avoidance
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning can enable complex, adaptive behavior to be learned automatically for autonomous robotic platforms. However, practical deployment of reinforcement learning methods must contend with the fact that the training process itself can be unsafe for the robot. In this paper, we consider the specific case of a mobile robot learning to navigate an a priori unknown environment while avoiding collisions. In order to learn collision avoidance, the robot must experience collisions at training time. However, high-speed collisions, even at training time, could damage the robot. A successful learning method must therefore proceed cautiously, experiencing only low-speed collisions until it gains confidence. To this end, we present an uncertainty-aware model-based learning algorithm that estimates the probability of collision together with a statistical estimate of uncertainty. By formulating an uncertainty-dependent cost function, we show that the algorithm naturally chooses to proceed cautiously in unfamiliar environments, and increases the velocity of the robot in settings where it has high confidence. Our predictive model is based on bootstrapped neural networks using dropout, allowing it to process raw sensory inputs from high-bandwidth sensors such as cameras. Our experimental evaluation demonstrates that our method effectively minimizes dangerous collisions at training time in an obstacle avoidance task for a simulated and real-world quadrotor, and a real-world RC car. Videos of the experiments can be found at https://sites.google.com/site/probcoll. 

Title: Adaptive Robot-Assisted Feeding: An Online Learning Framework for Acquiring Previously Unseen Food Items
Abstract:  A successful robot-assisted feeding system requires bite acquisition of a wide variety of food items. It must adapt to changing user food preferences under uncertain visual and physical environments. Different food items in different environmental conditions require different manipulation strategies for successful bite acquisition. Therefore, a key challenge is how to handle previously unseen food items with very different success rate distributions over strategy. Combining low-level controllers and planners into discrete action trajectories, we show that the problem can be represented using a linear contextual bandit setting. We construct a simulated environment using a doubly robust loss estimate from previously seen food items, which we use to tune the parameters of off-the-shelf contextual bandit algorithms. Finally, we demonstrate empirically on a robot-assisted feeding system that, even starting with a model trained on thousands of skewering attempts on dissimilar previously seen food items, $\epsilon$-greedy and LinUCB algorithms can quickly converge to the most successful manipulation strategy. 

Title: Setup of a Recurrent Neural Network as a Body Model for Solving Inverse and Forward Kinematics as well as Dynamics for a Redundant Manipulator
Abstract:  An internal model of the own body can be assumed a fundamental and evolutionary-early representation as it is present throughout the animal kingdom. Such functional models are, on the one hand, required in motor control, for example solving the inverse kinematic or dynamic task in goal-directed movements or a forward task in ballistic movements. On the other hand, such models are recruited in cognitive tasks as are planning ahead or observation of actions of a conspecific. Here, we present a functional internal body model that is based on the Mean of Multiple Computations principle. For the first time such a model is completely realized in a recurrent neural network as necessary normalization steps are integrated into the neural model itself. Secondly, a dynamic extension is applied to the model. It is shown how the neural network solves a series of inverse tasks. Furthermore, emerging representation in transformational layers are analyzed that show a form of prototypical population-coding as found in place or direction cells. 

Title: Predicting Contextual Sequences via Submodular Function Maximization
Abstract:  Sequence optimization, where the items in a list are ordered to maximize some reward has many applications such as web advertisement placement, search, and control libraries in robotics. Previous work in sequence optimization produces a static ordering that does not take any features of the item or context of the problem into account. In this work, we propose a general approach to order the items within the sequence based on the context (e.g., perceptual information, environment description, and goals). We take a simple, efficient, reduction-based approach where the choice and order of the items is established by repeatedly learning simple classifiers or regressors for each "slot" in the sequence. Our approach leverages recent work on submodular function maximization to provide a formal regret reduction from submodular sequence optimization to simple cost-sensitive prediction. We apply our contextual sequence prediction algorithm to optimize control libraries and demonstrate results on two robotics problems: manipulator trajectory prediction and mobile robot path planning. 

Title: Towards Robust RGB-D Human Mesh Recovery
Abstract:  We consider the problem of human pose estimation. While much recent work has focused on the RGB domain, these techniques are inherently under-constrained since there can be many 3D configurations that explain the same 2D projection. To this end, we propose a new method that uses RGB-D data to estimate a parametric human mesh model. Our key innovations include (a) the design of a new dynamic data fusion module that facilitates learning with a combination of RGB-only and RGB-D datasets, (b) a new constraint generator module that provides SMPL supervisory signals when explicit SMPL annotations are not available, and (c) the design of a new depth ranking learning objective, all of which enable principled model training with RGB-D data. We conduct extensive experiments on a variety of RGB-D datasets to demonstrate efficacy. 

Title: Noisy Agents: Self-supervised Exploration by Predicting Auditory Events
Abstract:  Humans integrate multiple sensory modalities (e.g. visual and audio) to build a causal understanding of the physical world. In this work, we propose a novel type of intrinsic motivation for Reinforcement Learning (RL) that encourages the agent to understand the causal effect of its actions through auditory event prediction. First, we allow the agent to collect a small amount of acoustic data and use K-means to discover underlying auditory event clusters. We then train a neural network to predict the auditory events and use the prediction errors as intrinsic rewards to guide RL exploration. Experimental results on Atari games show that our new intrinsic motivation significantly outperforms several state-of-the-art baselines. We further visualize our noisy agents' behavior in a physics environment and demonstrate that our newly designed intrinsic reward leads to the emergence of physical interaction behaviors (e.g. contact with objects). 

Title: Chasing Ghosts: Instruction Following as Bayesian State Tracking
Abstract:  A visually-grounded navigation instruction can be interpreted as a sequence of expected observations and actions an agent following the correct trajectory would encounter and perform. Based on this intuition, we formulate the problem of finding the goal location in Vision-and-Language Navigation (VLN) within the framework of Bayesian state tracking - learning observation and motion models conditioned on these expectable events. Together with a mapper that constructs a semantic spatial map on-the-fly during navigation, we formulate an end-to-end differentiable Bayes filter and train it to identify the goal by predicting the most likely trajectory through the map according to the instructions. The resulting navigation policy constitutes a new approach to instruction following that explicitly models a probability distribution over states, encoding strong geometric and algorithmic priors while enabling greater explainability. Our experiments show that our approach outperforms a strong LingUNet baseline when predicting the goal location on the map. On the full VLN task, i.e. navigating to the goal location, our approach achieves promising results with less reliance on navigation constraints. 

Title: What can robotics research learn from computer vision research?
Abstract:  The computer vision and robotics research communities are each strong. However progress in computer vision has become turbo-charged in recent years due to big data, GPU computing, novel learning algorithms and a very effective research methodology. By comparison, progress in robotics seems slower. It is true that robotics came later to exploring the potential of learning -- the advantages over the well-established body of knowledge in dynamics, kinematics, planning and control is still being debated, although reinforcement learning seems to offer real potential. However, the rapid development of computer vision compared to robotics cannot be only attributed to the former's adoption of deep learning. In this paper, we argue that the gains in computer vision are due to research methodology -- evaluation under strict constraints versus experiments; bold numbers versus videos. 

Title: Efficient and Robust Pedestrian Detection using Deep Learning for Human-Aware Navigation
Abstract:  This paper addresses the problem of Human-Aware Navigation (HAN), using multi camera sensors to implement a vision-based person tracking system. The main contributions of this paper are as follows: a novel and efficient Deep Learning person detection and a standardization of human-aware constraints. In the first stage of the approach, we propose to cascade the Aggregate Channel Features (ACF) detector with a deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to achieve fast and accurate Pedestrian Detection (PD). Regarding the human awareness (that can be defined as constraints associated with the robot's motion), we use a mixture of asymmetric Gaussian functions, to define the cost functions associated to each constraint. Both methods proposed herein are evaluated individually to measure the impact of each of the components. The final solution (including both the proposed pedestrian detection and the human-aware constraints) is tested in a typical domestic indoor scenario, in four distinct experiments. The results show that the robot is able to cope with human-aware constraints, defined after common proxemics and social rules. 

Title: Real-Time 6D Object Pose Estimation on CPU
Abstract:  We propose a fast and accurate 6D object pose estimation from a RGB-D image. Our proposed method is template matching based and consists of three main technical components, PCOF-MOD (multimodal PCOF), balanced pose tree (BPT) and optimum memory rearrangement for a coarse-to-fine search. Our model templates on densely sampled viewpoints and PCOF-MOD which explicitly handles a certain range of 3D object pose improve the robustness against background clutters. BPT which is an efficient tree-based data structures for a large number of templates and template matching on rearranged feature maps where nearby features are linearly aligned accelerate the pose estimation. The experimental evaluation on tabletop and bin-picking dataset showed that our method achieved higher accuracy and faster speed in comparison with state-of-the-art techniques including recent CNN based approaches. Moreover, our model templates can be trained only from 3D CAD in a few minutes and the pose estimation run in near real-time (23 fps) on CPU. These features are suitable for any real applications. 

Title: The Probabilistic Object Detection Challenge
Abstract:  We introduce a new challenge for computer and robotic vision, the first ACRV Robotic Vision Challenge, Probabilistic Object Detection. Probabilistic object detection is a new variation on traditional object detection tasks, requiring estimates of spatial and semantic uncertainty. We extend the traditional bounding box format of object detection to express spatial uncertainty using gaussian distributions for the box corners. The challenge introduces a new test dataset of video sequences, which are designed to more closely resemble the kind of data available to a robotic system. We evaluate probabilistic detections using a new probability-based detection quality (PDQ) measure. The goal in creating this challenge is to draw the computer and robotic vision communities together, toward applying object detection solutions for practical robotics applications. 

Title: Deep Interactive Reinforcement Learning for Path Following of Autonomous Underwater Vehicle
Abstract:  Autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) plays an increasingly important role in ocean exploration. Existing AUVs are usually not fully autonomous and generally limited to pre-planning or pre-programming tasks. Reinforcement learning (RL) and deep reinforcement learning have been introduced into the AUV design and research to improve its autonomy. However, these methods are still difficult to apply directly to the actual AUV system because of the sparse rewards and low learning efficiency. In this paper, we proposed a deep interactive reinforcement learning method for path following of AUV by combining the advantages of deep reinforcement learning and interactive RL. In addition, since the human trainer cannot provide human rewards for AUV when it is running in the ocean and AUV needs to adapt to a changing environment, we further propose a deep reinforcement learning method that learns from both human rewards and environmental rewards at the same time. We test our methods in two path following tasks---straight line and sinusoids curve following of AUV by simulating in the Gazebo platform. Our experimental results show that with our proposed deep interactive RL method, AUV can converge faster than a DQN learner from only environmental reward. Moreover, AUV learning with our deep RL from both human and environmental rewards can also achieve a similar or even better performance than that with the deep interactive RL method and can adapt to the actual environment by further learning from environmental rewards. 

Title: Crop Height and Plot Estimation from Unmanned Aerial Vehicles using 3D LiDAR
Abstract:  We present techniques to measure crop heights using a 3D Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) sensor mounted on an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV). Knowing the height of plants is crucial to monitor their overall health and growth cycles, especially for high-throughput plant phenotyping. We present a methodology for extracting plant heights from 3D LiDAR point clouds, specifically focusing on plot-based phenotyping environments. We also present a toolchain that can be used to create phenotyping farms for use in Gazebo simulations. The tool creates a randomized farm with realistic 3D plant and terrain models. We conducted a series of simulations and hardware experiments in controlled and natural settings. Our algorithm was able to estimate the plant heights in a field with 112 plots with a root mean square error (RMSE) of 6.1 cm. This is the first such dataset for 3D LiDAR from an airborne robot over a wheat field. The developed simulation toolchain, algorithmic implementation, and datasets can be found on the GitHub repository located at https://github.com/hsd1121/PointCloudProcessing. 

Title: A Minimalist Approach to Type-Agnostic Detection of Quadrics in Point Clouds
Abstract:  This paper proposes a segmentation-free, automatic and efficient procedure to detect general geometric quadric forms in point clouds, where clutter and occlusions are inevitable. Our everyday world is dominated by man-made objects which are designed using 3D primitives (such as planes, cones, spheres, cylinders, etc.). These objects are also omnipresent in industrial environments. This gives rise to the possibility of abstracting 3D scenes through primitives, thereby positions these geometric forms as an integral part of perception and high level 3D scene understanding. As opposed to state-of-the-art, where a tailored algorithm treats each primitive type separately, we propose to encapsulate all types in a single robust detection procedure. At the center of our approach lies a closed form 3D quadric fit, operating in both primal & dual spaces and requiring as low as 4 oriented-points. Around this fit, we design a novel, local null-space voting strategy to reduce the 4-point case to 3. Voting is coupled with the famous RANSAC and makes our algorithm orders of magnitude faster than its conventional counterparts. This is the first method capable of performing a generic cross-type multi-object primitive detection in difficult scenes. Results on synthetic and real datasets support the validity of our method. 

Title: Challenges in Designing Datasets and Validation for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Autonomous driving is getting a lot of attention in the last decade and will be the hot topic at least until the first successful certification of a car with Level 5 autonomy. There are many public datasets in the academic community. However, they are far away from what a robust industrial production system needs. There is a large gap between academic and industrial setting and a substantial way from a research prototype, built on public datasets, to a deployable solution which is a challenging task. In this paper, we focus on bad practices that often happen in the autonomous driving from an industrial deployment perspective. Data design deserves at least the same amount of attention as the model design. There is very little attention paid to these issues in the scientific community, and we hope this paper encourages better formalization of dataset design. More specifically, we focus on the datasets design and validation scheme for autonomous driving, where we would like to highlight the common problems, wrong assumptions, and steps towards avoiding them, as well as some open problems. 

Title: PST900: RGB-Thermal Calibration, Dataset and Segmentation Network
Abstract:  In this work we propose long wave infrared (LWIR) imagery as a viable supporting modality for semantic segmentation using learning-based techniques. We first address the problem of RGB-thermal camera calibration by proposing a passive calibration target and procedure that is both portable and easy to use. Second, we present PST900, a dataset of 894 synchronized and calibrated RGB and Thermal image pairs with per pixel human annotations across four distinct classes from the DARPA Subterranean Challenge. Lastly, we propose a CNN architecture for fast semantic segmentation that combines both RGB and Thermal imagery in a way that leverages RGB imagery independently. We compare our method against the state-of-the-art and show that our method outperforms them in our dataset. 

Title: Crowd-Robot Interaction: Crowd-aware Robot Navigation with Attention-based Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Mobility in an effective and socially-compliant manner is an essential yet challenging task for robots operating in crowded spaces. Recent works have shown the power of deep reinforcement learning techniques to learn socially cooperative policies. However, their cooperation ability deteriorates as the crowd grows since they typically relax the problem as a one-way Human-Robot interaction problem. In this work, we want to go beyond first-order Human-Robot interaction and more explicitly model Crowd-Robot Interaction (CRI). We propose to (i) rethink pairwise interactions with a self-attention mechanism, and (ii) jointly model Human-Robot as well as Human-Human interactions in the deep reinforcement learning framework. Our model captures the Human-Human interactions occurring in dense crowds that indirectly affects the robot's anticipation capability. Our proposed attentive pooling mechanism learns the collective importance of neighboring humans with respect to their future states. Various experiments demonstrate that our model can anticipate human dynamics and navigate in crowds with time efficiency, outperforming state-of-the-art methods. 

Title: Semantic 3D Occupancy Mapping through Efficient High Order CRFs
Abstract:  Semantic 3D mapping can be used for many applications such as robot navigation and virtual interaction. In recent years, there has been great progress in semantic segmentation and geometric 3D mapping. However, it is still challenging to combine these two tasks for accurate and large-scale semantic mapping from images. In the paper, we propose an incremental and (near) real-time semantic mapping system. A 3D scrolling occupancy grid map is built to represent the world, which is memory and computationally efficient and bounded for large scale environments. We utilize the CNN segmentation as prior prediction and further optimize 3D grid labels through a novel CRF model. Superpixels are utilized to enforce smoothness and form robust P N high order potential. An efficient mean field inference is developed for the graph optimization. We evaluate our system on the KITTI dataset and improve the segmentation accuracy by 10% over existing systems. 

Title: Learning Singularity Avoidance
Abstract:  With the increase in complexity of robotic systems and the rise in non-expert users, it can be assumed that task constraints are not explicitly known. In tasks where avoiding singularity is critical to its success, this paper provides an approach, especially for non-expert users, for the system to learn the constraints contained in a set of demonstrations, such that they can be used to optimise an autonomous controller to avoid singularity, without having to explicitly know the task constraints. The proposed approach avoids singularity, and thereby unpredictable behaviour when carrying out a task, by maximising the learnt manipulability throughout the motion of the constrained system, and is not limited to kinematic systems. Its benefits are demonstrated through comparisons with other control policies which show that the constrained manipulability of a system learnt through demonstration can be used to avoid singularities in cases where these other policies would fail. In the absence of the systems manipulability subject to a tasks constraints, the proposed approach can be used instead to infer these with results showing errors less than 10^-5 in 3DOF simulated systems as well as 10^-2 using a 7DOF real world robotic system. 

Title: SOLAR: Deep Structured Representations for Model-Based Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Model-based reinforcement learning (RL) has proven to be a data efficient approach for learning control tasks but is difficult to utilize in domains with complex observations such as images. In this paper, we present a method for learning representations that are suitable for iterative model-based policy improvement, even when the underlying dynamical system has complex dynamics and image observations, in that these representations are optimized for inferring simple dynamics and cost models given data from the current policy. This enables a model-based RL method based on the linear-quadratic regulator (LQR) to be used for systems with image observations. We evaluate our approach on a range of robotics tasks, including manipulation with a real-world robotic arm directly from images. We find that our method produces substantially better final performance than other model-based RL methods while being significantly more efficient than model-free RL. 

Title: Pose Estimation Based on 3D Models
Abstract:  In this paper, we proposed a pose estimation system based on rendered image training set, which predicts the pose of objects in real image, with knowledge of object category and tight bounding box. We developed a patch-based multi-class classification algorithm, and an iterative approach to improve the accuracy. We achieved state-of-the-art performance on pose estimation task. 

Title: RadGrad: Active learning with loss gradients
Abstract:  Solving sequential decision prediction problems, including those in imitation learning settings, requires mitigating the problem of covariate shift. The standard approach, DAgger, relies on capturing expert behaviour in all states that the agent reaches. In real-world settings, querying an expert is costly. We propose a new active learning algorithm that selectively queries the expert, based on both a prediction of agent error and a proxy for agent risk, that maintains the performance of unrestrained expert querying systems while substantially reducing the number of expert queries made. We show that our approach, RadGrad, has the potential to improve upon existing safety-aware algorithms, and matches or exceeds the performance of DAgger and variants (i.e., SafeDAgger) in one simulated environment. However, we also find that a more complex environment poses challenges not only to our proposed method, but also to existing safety-aware algorithms, which do not match the performance of DAgger in our experiments. 

Title: Deep-Learned Collision Avoidance Policy for Distributed Multi-Agent Navigation
Abstract:  High-speed, low-latency obstacle avoidance that is insensitive to sensor noise is essential for enabling multiple decentralized robots to function reliably in cluttered and dynamic environments. While other distributed multi-agent collision avoidance systems exist, these systems require online geometric optimization where tedious parameter tuning and perfect sensing are necessary. We present a novel end-to-end framework to generate reactive collision avoidance policy for efficient distributed multi-agent navigation. Our method formulates an agent's navigation strategy as a deep neural network mapping from the observed noisy sensor measurements to the agent's steering commands in terms of movement velocity. We train the network on a large number of frames of collision avoidance data collected by repeatedly running a multi-agent simulator with different parameter settings. We validate the learned deep neural network policy in a set of simulated and real scenarios with noisy measurements and demonstrate that our method is able to generate a robust navigation strategy that is insensitive to imperfect sensing and works reliably in all situations. We also show that our method can be well generalized to scenarios that do not appear in our training data, including scenes with static obstacles and agents with different sizes. Videos are available at https://sites.google.com/view/deepmaca. 

Title: Combining Physics-Based Domain Knowledge and Machine Learning using Variational Gaussian Processes with Explicit Linear Prior
Abstract:  Centuries of development in natural sciences and mathematical modeling provide valuable domain expert knowledge that has yet to be explored for the development of machine learning models. When modeling complex physical systems, both domain knowledge and data contribute important information about the system. In this paper, we present a data-driven model that takes advantage of partial domain knowledge in order to improve generalization and interpretability. The presented model, which we call EVGP (Explicit Variational Gaussian Process), uses an explicit linear prior to incorporate partial domain knowledge while using data to fill in the gaps in knowledge. Variational inference was used to obtain a sparse approximation that scales well to large datasets. The advantages include: 1) using partial domain knowledge to improve inductive bias (assumptions of the model), 2) scalability to large datasets, 3) improved interpretability. We show how the EVGP model can be used to learn system dynamics using basic Newtonian mechanics as prior knowledge. We demonstrate that using simple priors from partially defined physics models considerably improves performance when compared to fully data-driven models. 

Title: Evolutionary Population Curriculum for Scaling Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  In multi-agent games, the complexity of the environment can grow exponentially as the number of agents increases, so it is particularly challenging to learn good policies when the agent population is large. In this paper, we introduce Evolutionary Population Curriculum (EPC), a curriculum learning paradigm that scales up Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) by progressively increasing the population of training agents in a stage-wise manner. Furthermore, EPC uses an evolutionary approach to fix an objective misalignment issue throughout the curriculum: agents successfully trained in an early stage with a small population are not necessarily the best candidates for adapting to later stages with scaled populations. Concretely, EPC maintains multiple sets of agents in each stage, performs mix-and-match and fine-tuning over these sets and promotes the sets of agents with the best adaptability to the next stage. We implement EPC on a popular MARL algorithm, MADDPG, and empirically show that our approach consistently outperforms baselines by a large margin as the number of agents grows exponentially. 

Title: Quasi-Newton Trust Region Policy Optimization
Abstract:  We propose a trust region method for policy optimization that employs Quasi-Newton approximation for the Hessian, called Quasi-Newton Trust Region Policy Optimization QNTRPO. Gradient descent is the de facto algorithm for reinforcement learning tasks with continuous controls. The algorithm has achieved state-of-the-art performance when used in reinforcement learning across a wide range of tasks. However, the algorithm suffers from a number of drawbacks including: lack of stepsize selection criterion, and slow convergence. We investigate the use of a trust region method using dogleg step and a Quasi-Newton approximation for the Hessian for policy optimization. We demonstrate through numerical experiments over a wide range of challenging continuous control tasks that our particular choice is efficient in terms of number of samples and improves performance 

Title: One-Shot Informed Robotic Visual Search in the Wild
Abstract:  We consider the task of underwater robot navigation for the purpose of collecting scientifically-relevant video data for environmental monitoring. The majority of field robots that currently perform monitoring tasks in unstructured natural environments navigate via path-tracking a pre-specified sequence of waypoints. Although this navigation method is often necessary, it is limiting because the robot does not have a model of what the scientist deems to be relevant visual observations. Thus, the robot can neither visually search for particular types of objects, nor focus its attention on parts of the scene that might be more relevant than the pre-specified waypoints and viewpoints. In this paper we propose a method that enables informed visual navigation via a learned visual similarity operator that guides the robot's visual search towards parts of the scene that look like an exemplar image, which is given by the user as a high-level specification for data collection. We propose and evaluate a weakly-supervised video representation learning method that outperforms ImageNet embeddings for similarity tasks in the underwater domain. We also demonstrate the deployment of this similarity operator during informed visual navigation in collaborative environmental monitoring scenarios, in large-scale field trials, where the robot and a human scientist jointly search for relevant visual content. 

Title: Probabilistic Permutation Synchronization using the Riemannian Structure of the Birkhoff Polytope
Abstract:  We present an entirely new geometric and probabilistic approach to synchronization of correspondences across multiple sets of objects or images. In particular, we present two algorithms: (1) Birkhoff-Riemannian L-BFGS for optimizing the relaxed version of the combinatorially intractable cycle consistency loss in a principled manner, (2) Birkhoff-Riemannian Langevin Monte Carlo for generating samples on the Birkhoff Polytope and estimating the confidence of the found solutions. To this end, we first introduce the very recently developed Riemannian geometry of the Birkhoff Polytope. Next, we introduce a new probabilistic synchronization model in the form of a Markov Random Field (MRF). Finally, based on the first order retraction operators, we formulate our problem as simulating a stochastic differential equation and devise new integrators. We show on both synthetic and real datasets that we achieve high quality multi-graph matching results with faster convergence and reliable confidence/uncertainty estimates. 

Title: Bonnet: An Open-Source Training and Deployment Framework for Semantic Segmentation in Robotics using CNNs
Abstract:  The ability to interpret a scene is an important capability for a robot that is supposed to interact with its environment. The knowledge of what is in front of the robot is, for example, relevant for navigation, manipulation, or planning. Semantic segmentation labels each pixel of an image with a class label and thus provides a detailed semantic annotation of the surroundings to the robot. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are popular methods for addressing this type of problem. The available software for training and the integration of CNNs for real robots, however, is quite fragmented and often difficult to use for non-experts, despite the availability of several high-quality open-source frameworks for neural network implementation and training. In this paper, we propose a tool called Bonnet, which addresses this fragmentation problem by building a higher abstraction that is specific for the semantic segmentation task. It provides a modular approach to simplify the training of a semantic segmentation CNN independently of the used dataset and the intended task. Furthermore, we also address the deployment on a real robotic platform. Thus, we do not propose a new CNN approach in this paper. Instead, we provide a stable and easy-to-use tool to make this technology more approachable in the context of autonomous systems. In this sense, we aim at closing a gap between computer vision research and its use in robotics research. We provide an open-source codebase for training and deployment. The training interface is implemented in Python using TensorFlow and the deployment interface provides a C++ library that can be easily integrated in an existing robotics codebase, a ROS node, and two standalone applications for label prediction in images and videos. 

Title: Automated shapeshifting for function recovery in damaged robots
Abstract:  A robot's mechanical parts routinely wear out from normal functioning and can be lost to injury. For autonomous robots operating in isolated or hostile environments, repair from a human operator is often not possible. Thus, much work has sought to automate damage recovery in robots. However, every case reported in the literature to date has accepted the damaged mechanical structure as fixed, and focused on learning new ways to control it. Here we show for the first time a robot that automatically recovers from unexpected damage by deforming its resting mechanical structure without changing its control policy. We found that, especially in the case of "deep insult", such as removal of all four of the robot's legs, the damaged machine evolves shape changes that not only recover the original level of function (locomotion) as before, but can in fact surpass the original level of performance (speed). This suggests that shape change, instead of control readaptation, may be a better method to recover function after damage in some cases. 

Title: 3D Fusion of Infrared Images with Dense RGB Reconstruction from Multiple Views -- with Application to Fire-fighting Robots
Abstract:  This project integrates infrared and RGB imagery to produce dense 3D environment models reconstructed from multiple views. The resulting 3D map contains both thermal and RGB information which can be used in robotic fire-fighting applications to identify victims and active fire areas. 

Title: Predicting Vehicle Behaviors Over An Extended Horizon Using Behavior Interaction Network
Abstract:  Anticipating possible behaviors of traffic participants is an essential capability of autonomous vehicles. Many behavior detection and maneuver recognition methods only have a very limited prediction horizon that leaves inadequate time and space for planning. To avoid unsatisfactory reactive decisions, it is essential to count long-term future rewards in planning, which requires extending the prediction horizon. In this paper, we uncover that clues to vehicle behaviors over an extended horizon can be found in vehicle interaction, which makes it possible to anticipate the likelihood of a certain behavior, even in the absence of any clear maneuver pattern. We adopt a recurrent neural network (RNN) for observation encoding, and based on that, we propose a novel vehicle behavior interaction network (VBIN) to capture the vehicle interaction from the hidden states and connection feature of each interaction pair. The output of our method is a probabilistic likelihood of multiple behavior classes, which matches the multimodal and uncertain nature of the distant future. A systematic comparison of our method against two state-of-the-art methods and another two baseline methods on a publicly available real highway dataset is provided, showing that our method has superior accuracy and advanced capability for interaction modeling. 

Title: Learning Mid-Level Features and Modeling Neuron Selectivity for Image Classification
Abstract:  We now know that mid-level features can greatly enhance the performance of image learning, but how to automatically learn the image features efficiently and in an unsupervised manner is still an open question. In this paper, we present a very efficient mid-level feature learning approach (MidFea), which only involves simple operations such as $k$-means clustering, convolution, pooling, vector quantization and random projection. We explain why this simple method generates the desired features, and argue that there is no need to spend much time in learning low-level feature extractors. Furthermore, to boost the performance, we propose to model the neuron selectivity (NS) principle by building an additional layer over the mid-level features before feeding the features into the classifier. We show that the NS-layer learns category-specific neurons with both bottom-up inference and top-down analysis, and thus supports fast inference for a query image. We run extensive experiments on several public databases to demonstrate that our approach can achieve state-of-the-art performances for face recognition, gender classification, age estimation and object categorization. In particular, we demonstrate that our approach is more than an order of magnitude faster than some recently proposed sparse coding based methods. 

Title: Automatic Goal Generation for Reinforcement Learning Agents
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning is a powerful technique to train an agent to perform a task. However, an agent that is trained using reinforcement learning is only capable of achieving the single task that is specified via its reward function. Such an approach does not scale well to settings in which an agent needs to perform a diverse set of tasks, such as navigating to varying positions in a room or moving objects to varying locations. Instead, we propose a method that allows an agent to automatically discover the range of tasks that it is capable of performing. We use a generator network to propose tasks for the agent to try to achieve, specified as goal states. The generator network is optimized using adversarial training to produce tasks that are always at the appropriate level of difficulty for the agent. Our method thus automatically produces a curriculum of tasks for the agent to learn. We show that, by using this framework, an agent can efficiently and automatically learn to perform a wide set of tasks without requiring any prior knowledge of its environment. Our method can also learn to achieve tasks with sparse rewards, which traditionally pose significant challenges. 

Title: Appearance-based indoor localization: A comparison of patch descriptor performance
Abstract:  Vision is one of the most important of the senses, and humans use it extensively during navigation. We evaluated different types of image and video frame descriptors that could be used to determine distinctive visual landmarks for localizing a person based on what is seen by a camera that they carry. To do this, we created a database containing over 3 km of video-sequences with ground-truth in the form of distance travelled along different corridors. Using this database, the accuracy of localization - both in terms of knowing which route a user is on - and in terms of position along a certain route, can be evaluated. For each type of descriptor, we also tested different techniques to encode visual structure and to search between journeys to estimate a user's position. The techniques include single-frame descriptors, those using sequences of frames, and both colour and achromatic descriptors. We found that single-frame indexing worked better within this particular dataset. This might be because the motion of the person holding the camera makes the video too dependent on individual steps and motions of one particular journey. Our results suggest that appearance-based information could be an additional source of navigational data indoors, augmenting that provided by, say, radio signal strength indicators (RSSIs). Such visual information could be collected by crowdsourcing low-resolution video feeds, allowing journeys made by different users to be associated with each other, and location to be inferred without requiring explicit mapping. This offers a complementary approach to methods based on simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithms. 

Title: SCALE-Net: Scalable Vehicle Trajectory Prediction Network under Random Number of Interacting Vehicles via Edge-enhanced Graph Convolutional Neural Network
Abstract:  Predicting the future trajectory of surrounding vehicles in a randomly varying traffic level is one of the most challenging problems in developing an autonomous vehicle. Since there is no pre-defined number of interacting vehicles participate in, the prediction network has to be scalable with respect to the vehicle number in order to guarantee the consistency in terms of both accuracy and computational load. In this paper, the first fully scalable trajectory prediction network, SCALE-Net, is proposed that can ensure both higher prediction performance and consistent computational load regardless of the number of surrounding vehicles. The SCALE-Net employs the Edge-enhance Graph Convolutional Neural Network (EGCN) for the inter-vehicular interaction embedding network. Since the proposed EGCN is inherently scalable with respect to the graph node (an agent in this study), the model can be operated independently from the total number of vehicles considered. We evaluated the scalability of the SCALE-Net on the publically available NGSIM datasets by comparing variations on computation time and prediction accuracy per single driving scene with respect to the varying vehicle number. The experimental test shows that both computation time and prediction performance of the SCALE-Net consistently outperform those of previous models regardless of the level of traffic complexities. 

Title: Deep Learning for Posture Control Nonlinear Model System and Noise Identification
Abstract:  In this work we present a system identification procedure based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) for human posture control models. A usual approach to the study of human posture control consists in the identification of parameters for a control system. In this context, linear models are particularly popular due to the relative simplicity in identifying the required parameters and to analyze the results. Nonlinear models, conversely, are required to predict the real behavior exhibited by human subjects and hence it is desirable to use them in posture control analysis. The use of CNN aims to overcome the heavy computational requirement for the identification of nonlinear models, in order to make the analysis of experimental data less time consuming and, in perspective, to make such analysis feasible in the context of clinical tests. Some potential implications of the method for humanoid robotics are also discussed. 

Title: 6-DoF Object Pose from Semantic Keypoints
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel approach to estimating the continuous six degree of freedom (6-DoF) pose (3D translation and rotation) of an object from a single RGB image. The approach combines semantic keypoints predicted by a convolutional network (convnet) with a deformable shape model. Unlike prior work, we are agnostic to whether the object is textured or textureless, as the convnet learns the optimal representation from the available training image data. Furthermore, the approach can be applied to instance- and class-based pose recovery. Empirically, we show that the proposed approach can accurately recover the 6-DoF object pose for both instance- and class-based scenarios with a cluttered background. For class-based object pose estimation, state-of-the-art accuracy is shown on the large-scale PASCAL3D+ dataset. 

Title: Learning Sampling Distributions for Robot Motion Planning
Abstract:  A defining feature of sampling-based motion planning is the reliance on an implicit representation of the state space, which is enabled by a set of probing samples. Traditionally, these samples are drawn either probabilistically or deterministically to uniformly cover the state space. Yet, the motion of many robotic systems is often restricted to "small" regions of the state space, due to, for example, differential constraints or collision-avoidance constraints. To accelerate the planning process, it is thus desirable to devise non-uniform sampling strategies that favor sampling in those regions where an optimal solution might lie. This paper proposes a methodology for non-uniform sampling, whereby a sampling distribution is learned from demonstrations, and then used to bias sampling. The sampling distribution is computed through a conditional variational autoencoder, allowing sample generation from the latent space conditioned on the specific planning problem. This methodology is general, can be used in combination with any sampling-based planner, and can effectively exploit the underlying structure of a planning problem while maintaining the theoretical guarantees of sampling-based approaches. Specifically, on several planning problems, the proposed methodology is shown to effectively learn representations for the relevant regions of the state space, resulting in an order of magnitude improvement in terms of success rate and convergence to the optimal cost. 

Title: Using Hankel Matrices for Dynamics-based Facial Emotion Recognition and Pain Detection
Abstract:  This paper proposes a new approach to model the temporal dynamics of a sequence of facial expressions. To this purpose, a sequence of Face Image Descriptors (FID) is regarded as the output of a Linear Time Invariant (LTI) system. The temporal dynamics of such sequence of descriptors are represented by means of a Hankel matrix. The paper presents different strategies to compute dynamics-based representation of a sequence of FID, and reports classification accuracy values of the proposed representations within different standard classification frameworks. The representations have been validated in two very challenging application domains: emotion recognition and pain detection. Experiments on two publicly available benchmarks and comparison with state-of-the-art approaches demonstrate that the dynamics-based FID representation attains competitive performance when off-the-shelf classification tools are adopted. 

Title: Spatial Uncertainty Sampling for End-to-End Control
Abstract:  End-to-end trained neural networks (NNs) are a compelling approach to autonomous vehicle control because of their ability to learn complex tasks without manual engineering of rule-based decisions. However, challenging road conditions, ambiguous navigation situations, and safety considerations require reliable uncertainty estimation for the eventual adoption of full-scale autonomous vehicles. Bayesian deep learning approaches provide a way to estimate uncertainty by approximating the posterior distribution of weights given a set of training data. Dropout training in deep NNs approximates Bayesian inference in a deep Gaussian process and can thus be used to estimate model uncertainty. In this paper, we propose a Bayesian NN for end-to-end control that estimates uncertainty by exploiting feature map correlation during training. This approach achieves improved model fits, as well as tighter uncertainty estimates, than traditional element-wise dropout. We evaluate our algorithms on a challenging dataset collected over many different road types, times of day, and weather conditions, and demonstrate how uncertainties can be used in conjunction with a human controller in a parallel autonomous setting. 

Title: Multimodal Interaction-aware Motion Prediction for Autonomous Street Crossing
Abstract:  For mobile robots navigating on sidewalks, it is essential to be able to safely cross street intersections. Most existing approaches rely on the recognition of the traffic light signal to make an informed crossing decision. Although these approaches have been crucial enablers for urban navigation, the capabilities of robots employing such approaches are still limited to navigating only on streets containing signalized intersections. In this paper, we address this challenge and propose a multimodal convolutional neural network framework to predict the safety of a street intersection for crossing. Our architecture consists of two subnetworks; an interaction-aware trajectory estimation stream IA-TCNN, that predicts the future states of all observed traffic participants in the scene, and a traffic light recognition stream AtteNet. Our IA-TCNN utilizes dilated causal convolutions to model the behavior of the observable dynamic agents in the scene without explicitly assigning priorities to the interactions among them. While AtteNet utilizes Squeeze-Excitation blocks to learn a content-aware mechanism for selecting the relevant features from the data, thereby improving the noise robustness. Learned representations from the traffic light recognition stream are fused with the estimated trajectories from the motion prediction stream to learn the crossing decision. Furthermore, we extend our previously introduced Freiburg Street Crossing dataset with sequences captured at different types of intersections, demonstrating complex interactions among the traffic participants. Extensive experimental evaluations on public benchmark datasets and our proposed dataset demonstrate that our network achieves state-of-the-art performance for each of the subtasks, as well as for the crossing safety prediction. 

Title: Semi-Supervised Haptic Material Recognition for Robots using Generative Adversarial Networks
Abstract:  Material recognition enables robots to incorporate knowledge of material properties into their interactions with everyday objects. For example, material recognition opens up opportunities for clearer communication with a robot, such as "bring me the metal coffee mug", and recognizing plastic versus metal is crucial when using a microwave or oven. However, collecting labeled training data with a robot is often more difficult than unlabeled data. We present a semi-supervised learning approach for material recognition that uses generative adversarial networks (GANs) with haptic features such as force, temperature, and vibration. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art results and enables a robot to estimate the material class of household objects with ~90% accuracy when 92% of the training data are unlabeled. We explore how well this approach can recognize the material of new objects and we discuss challenges facing generalization. To motivate learning from unlabeled training data, we also compare results against several common supervised learning classifiers. In addition, we have released the dataset used for this work which consists of time-series haptic measurements from a robot that conducted thousands of interactions with 72 household objects. 

Title: Deep Object-Centric Representations for Generalizable Robot Learning
Abstract:  Robotic manipulation in complex open-world scenarios requires both reliable physical manipulation skills and effective and generalizable perception. In this paper, we propose a method where general purpose pretrained visual models serve as an object-centric prior for the perception system of a learned policy. We devise an object-level attentional mechanism that can be used to determine relevant objects from a few trajectories or demonstrations, and then immediately incorporate those objects into a learned policy. A task-independent meta-attention locates possible objects in the scene, and a task-specific attention identifies which objects are predictive of the trajectories. The scope of the task-specific attention is easily adjusted by showing demonstrations with distractor objects or with diverse relevant objects. Our results indicate that this approach exhibits good generalization across object instances using very few samples, and can be used to learn a variety of manipulation tasks using reinforcement learning. 

Title: CIRL: Controllable Imitative Reinforcement Learning for Vision-based Self-driving
Abstract:  Autonomous urban driving navigation with complex multi-agent dynamics is under-explored due to the difficulty of learning an optimal driving policy. The traditional modular pipeline heavily relies on hand-designed rules and the pre-processing perception system while the supervised learning-based models are limited by the accessibility of extensive human experience. We present a general and principled Controllable Imitative Reinforcement Learning (CIRL) approach which successfully makes the driving agent achieve higher success rates based on only vision inputs in a high-fidelity car simulator. To alleviate the low exploration efficiency for large continuous action space that often prohibits the use of classical RL on challenging real tasks, our CIRL explores over a reasonably constrained action space guided by encoded experiences that imitate human demonstrations, building upon Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG). Moreover, we propose to specialize adaptive policies and steering-angle reward designs for different control signals (i.e. follow, straight, turn right, turn left) based on the shared representations to improve the model capability in tackling with diverse cases. Extensive experiments on CARLA driving benchmark demonstrate that CIRL substantially outperforms all previous methods in terms of the percentage of successfully completed episodes on a variety of goal-directed driving tasks. We also show its superior generalization capability in unseen environments. To our knowledge, this is the first successful case of the learned driving policy through reinforcement learning in the high-fidelity simulator, which performs better-than supervised imitation learning. 

Title: An Evaluation of Knowledge Graph Embeddings for Autonomous Driving Data: Experience and Practice
Abstract:  The autonomous driving (AD) industry is exploring the use of knowledge graphs (KGs) to manage the vast amount of heterogeneous data generated from vehicular sensors. The various types of equipped sensors include video, LIDAR and RADAR. Scene understanding is an important topic in AD which requires consideration of various aspects of a scene, such as detected objects, events, time and location. Recent work on knowledge graph embeddings (KGEs) - an approach that facilitates neuro-symbolic fusion - has shown to improve the predictive performance of machine learning models. With the expectation that neuro-symbolic fusion through KGEs will improve scene understanding, this research explores the generation and evaluation of KGEs for autonomous driving data. We also present an investigation of the relationship between the level of informational detail in a KG and the quality of its derivative embeddings. By systematically evaluating KGEs along four dimensions -- i.e. quality metrics, KG informational detail, algorithms, and datasets -- we show that (1) higher levels of informational detail in KGs lead to higher quality embeddings, (2) type and relation semantics are better captured by the semantic transitional distance-based TransE algorithm, and (3) some metrics, such as coherence measure, may not be suitable for intrinsically evaluating KGEs in this domain. Additionally, we also present an (early) investigation of the usefulness of KGEs for two use-cases in the AD domain. 

Title: Active 6D Multi-Object Pose Estimation in Cluttered Scenarios with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  In this work, we explore how a strategic selection of camera movements can facilitate the task of 6D multi-object pose estimation in cluttered scenarios while respecting real-world constraints important in robotics and augmented reality applications, such as time and distance traveled. In the proposed framework, a set of multiple object hypotheses is given to an agent, which is inferred by an object pose estimator and subsequently spatio-temporally selected by a fusion function that makes use of a verification score that circumvents the need of ground-truth annotations. The agent reasons about these hypotheses, directing its attention to the object which it is most uncertain about, moving the camera towards such an object. Unlike previous works that propose short-sighted policies, our agent is trained in simulated scenarios using reinforcement learning, attempting to learn the camera moves that produce the most accurate object poses hypotheses for a given temporal and spatial budget, without the need of viewpoints rendering during inference. Our experiments show that the proposed approach successfully estimates the 6D object pose of a stack of objects in both challenging cluttered synthetic and real scenarios, showing superior performance compared to strong baselines. 

Title: STEP: Spatial Temporal Graph Convolutional Networks for Emotion Perception from Gaits
Abstract:  We present a novel classifier network called STEP, to classify perceived human emotion from gaits, based on a Spatial Temporal Graph Convolutional Network (ST-GCN) architecture. Given an RGB video of an individual walking, our formulation implicitly exploits the gait features to classify the emotional state of the human into one of four emotions: happy, sad, angry, or neutral. We use hundreds of annotated real-world gait videos and augment them with thousands of annotated synthetic gaits generated using a novel generative network called STEP-Gen, built on an ST-GCN based Conditional Variational Autoencoder (CVAE). We incorporate a novel push-pull regularization loss in the CVAE formulation of STEP-Gen to generate realistic gaits and improve the classification accuracy of STEP. We also release a novel dataset (E-Gait), which consists of $2,177$ human gaits annotated with perceived emotions along with thousands of synthetic gaits. In practice, STEP can learn the affective features and exhibits classification accuracy of 89% on E-Gait, which is 14 - 30% more accurate over prior methods. 

Title: Autonomous learning and chaining of motor primitives using the Free Energy Principle
Abstract:  In this article, we apply the Free-Energy Principle to the question of motor primitives learning. An echo-state network is used to generate motor trajectories. We combine this network with a perception module and a controller that can influence its dynamics. This new compound network permits the autonomous learning of a repertoire of motor trajectories. To evaluate the repertoires built with our method, we exploit them in a handwriting task where primitives are chained to produce long-range sequences. 

Title: Evolving embodied intelligence from materials to machines
Abstract:  Natural lifeforms specialise to their environmental niches across many levels; from low-level features such as DNA and proteins, through to higher-level artefacts including eyes, limbs, and overarching body plans. We propose Multi-Level Evolution (MLE), a bottom-up automatic process that designs robots across multiple levels and niches them to tasks and environmental conditions. MLE concurrently explores constituent molecular and material 'building blocks', as well as their possible assemblies into specialised morphological and sensorimotor configurations. MLE provides a route to fully harness a recent explosion in available candidate materials and ongoing advances in rapid manufacturing processes. We outline a feasible MLE architecture that realises this vision, highlight the main roadblocks and how they may be overcome, and show robotic applications to which MLE is particularly suited. By forming a research agenda to stimulate discussion between researchers in related fields, we hope to inspire the pursuit of multi-level robotic design all the way from material to machine. 

Title: NADPEx: An on-policy temporally consistent exploration method for deep reinforcement learning
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning agents need exploratory behaviors to escape from local optima. These behaviors may include both immediate dithering perturbation and temporally consistent exploration. To achieve these, a stochastic policy model that is inherently consistent through a period of time is in desire, especially for tasks with either sparse rewards or long term information. In this work, we introduce a novel on-policy temporally consistent exploration strategy - Neural Adaptive Dropout Policy Exploration (NADPEx) - for deep reinforcement learning agents. Modeled as a global random variable for conditional distribution, dropout is incorporated to reinforcement learning policies, equipping them with inherent temporal consistency, even when the reward signals are sparse. Two factors, gradients' alignment with the objective and KL constraint in policy space, are discussed to guarantee NADPEx policy's stable improvement. Our experiments demonstrate that NADPEx solves tasks with sparse reward while naive exploration and parameter noise fail. It yields as well or even faster convergence in the standard mujoco benchmark for continuous control. 

Title: What Can I Do Around Here? Deep Functional Scene Understanding for Cognitive Robots
Abstract:  For robots that have the capability to interact with the physical environment through their end effectors, understanding the surrounding scenes is not merely a task of image classification or object recognition. To perform actual tasks, it is critical for the robot to have a functional understanding of the visual scene. Here, we address the problem of localizing and recognition of functional areas from an arbitrary indoor scene, formulated as a two-stage deep learning based detection pipeline. A new scene functionality testing-bed, which is complied from two publicly available indoor scene datasets, is used for evaluation. Our method is evaluated quantitatively on the new dataset, demonstrating the ability to perform efficient recognition of functional areas from arbitrary indoor scenes. We also demonstrate that our detection model can be generalized onto novel indoor scenes by cross validating it with the images from two different datasets. 

Title: Generalized Grasping for Mechanical Grippers for Unknown Objects with Partial Point Cloud Representations
Abstract:  We present a generalized grasping algorithm that uses point clouds (i.e. a group of points and their respective surface normals) to discover grasp pose solutions for multiple grasp types, executed by a mechanical gripper, in near real-time. The algorithm introduces two ideas: 1) a histogram of finger contact normals is used to represent a grasp 'shape' to guide a gripper orientation search in a histogram of object(s) surface normals, and 2) voxel grid representations of gripper and object(s) are cross-correlated to match finger contact points, i.e. grasp 'size', to discover a grasp pose. Constraints, such as collisions with neighbouring objects, are optionally incorporated in the cross-correlation computation. We show via simulations and experiments that 1) grasp poses for three grasp types can be found in near real-time, 2) grasp pose solutions are consistent with respect to voxel resolution changes for both partial and complete point cloud scans, and 3) a planned grasp is executed with a mechanical gripper. 

Title: Globally optimal vertical direction estimation in Atlanta World
Abstract:  In man-made environments, such as indoor and urban scenes, most of the objects and structures are organized in the form of orthogonal and parallel planes. These planes can be approximated by the Atlanta world assumption, in which the normals of planes can be represented by the Atlanta frames. Atlanta world assumption, which can be considered as a generalized Manhattan world assumption, has one vertical frame and multiple horizontal frames. Conventionally, given a set of inputs such as surface normals, the Atlanta frame estimation problem can be solved in one-time by branch-and-bound (BnB). However, the runtime of the BnB algorithm will increase greatly when the dimensionality (i.e., the number of horizontal frames) increases. In this paper, we estimate only the vertical direction instead of all Atlanta frames at once. Accordingly, we propose a vertical direction estimation method by considering the relationship between the vertical frame and horizontal frames. Concretely, our approach employs a BnB algorithm to search the vertical direction guaranteeing global optimality without requiring prior knowledge of the number of Atlanta frames. Four novel bounds by mapping 3D-hemisphere to a 2D region are investigated to guarantee convergence. We verify the validity of the proposed method in various challenging synthetic and real-world data. 

Title: Fusion of stereo and still monocular depth estimates in a self-supervised learning context
Abstract:  We study how autonomous robots can learn by themselves to improve their depth estimation capability. In particular, we investigate a self-supervised learning setup in which stereo vision depth estimates serve as targets for a convolutional neural network (CNN) that transforms a single still image to a dense depth map. After training, the stereo and mono estimates are fused with a novel fusion method that preserves high confidence stereo estimates, while leveraging the CNN estimates in the low-confidence regions. The main contribution of the article is that it is shown that the fused estimates lead to a higher performance than the stereo vision estimates alone. Experiments are performed on the KITTI dataset, and on board of a Parrot SLAMDunk, showing that even rather limited CNNs can help provide stereo vision equipped robots with more reliable depth maps for autonomous navigation. 

Title: DeepRacer: Educational Autonomous Racing Platform for Experimentation with Sim2Real Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  DeepRacer is a platform for end-to-end experimentation with RL and can be used to systematically investigate the key challenges in developing intelligent control systems. Using the platform, we demonstrate how a 1/18th scale car can learn to drive autonomously using RL with a monocular camera. It is trained in simulation with no additional tuning in physical world and demonstrates: 1) formulation and solution of a robust reinforcement learning algorithm, 2) narrowing the reality gap through joint perception and dynamics, 3) distributed on-demand compute architecture for training optimal policies, and 4) a robust evaluation method to identify when to stop training. It is the first successful large-scale deployment of deep reinforcement learning on a robotic control agent that uses only raw camera images as observations and a model-free learning method to perform robust path planning. We open source our code and video demo on GitHub: https://git.io/fjxoJ. 

Title: Self-supervised learning: When is fusion of the primary and secondary sensor cue useful?
Abstract:  Self-supervised learning (SSL) is a reliable learning mechanism in which a robot enhances its perceptual capabilities. Typically, in SSL a trusted, primary sensor cue provides supervised training data to a secondary sensor cue. In this article, a theoretical analysis is performed on the fusion of the primary and secondary cue in a minimal model of SSL. A proof is provided that determines the specific conditions under which it is favorable to perform fusion. In short, it is favorable when (i) the prior on the target value is strong or (ii) the secondary cue is sufficiently accurate. The theoretical findings are validated with computational experiments. Subsequently, a real-world case study is performed to investigate if fusion in SSL is also beneficial when assumptions of the minimal model are not met. In particular, a flying robot learns to map pressure measurements to sonar height measurements and then fuses the two, resulting in better height estimation. Fusion is also beneficial in the opposite case, when pressure is the primary cue. The analysis and results are encouraging to study SSL fusion also for other robots and sensors. 

Title: Efficient and Safe Exploration in Deterministic Markov Decision Processes with Unknown Transition Models
Abstract:  We propose a safe exploration algorithm for deterministic Markov Decision Processes with unknown transition models. Our algorithm guarantees safety by leveraging Lipschitz-continuity to ensure that no unsafe states are visited during exploration. Unlike many other existing techniques, the provided safety guarantee is deterministic. Our algorithm is optimized to reduce the number of actions needed for exploring the safe space. We demonstrate the performance of our algorithm in comparison with baseline methods in simulation on navigation tasks. 

Title: Noise Models in Feature-based Stereo Visual Odometry
Abstract:  Feature-based visual structure and motion reconstruction pipelines, common in visual odometry and large-scale reconstruction from photos, use the location of corresponding features in different images to determine the 3D structure of the scene, as well as the camera parameters associated with each image. The noise model, which defines the likelihood of the location of each feature in each image, is a key factor in the accuracy of such pipelines, alongside optimization strategy. Many different noise models have been proposed in the literature; in this paper we investigate the performance of several. We evaluate these models specifically w.r.t. stereo visual odometry, as this task is both simple (camera intrinsics are constant and known; geometry can be initialized reliably) and has datasets with ground truth readily available (KITTI Odometry and New Tsukuba Stereo Dataset). Our evaluation shows that noise models which are more adaptable to the varying nature of noise generally perform better. 

Title: LS-VO: Learning Dense Optical Subspace for Robust Visual Odometry Estimation
Abstract:  This work proposes a novel deep network architecture to solve the camera Ego-Motion estimation problem. A motion estimation network generally learns features similar to Optical Flow (OF) fields starting from sequences of images. This OF can be described by a lower dimensional latent space. Previous research has shown how to find linear approximations of this space. We propose to use an Auto-Encoder network to find a non-linear representation of the OF manifold. In addition, we propose to learn the latent space jointly with the estimation task, so that the learned OF features become a more robust description of the OF input. We call this novel architecture LS-VO. The experiments show that LS-VO achieves a considerable increase in performances in respect to baselines, while the number of parameters of the estimation network only slightly increases. 

Title: Learning Whole-body Motor Skills for Humanoids
Abstract:  This paper presents a hierarchical framework for Deep Reinforcement Learning that acquires motor skills for a variety of push recovery and balancing behaviors, i.e., ankle, hip, foot tilting, and stepping strategies. The policy is trained in a physics simulator with realistic setting of robot model and low-level impedance control that are easy to transfer the learned skills to real robots. The advantage over traditional methods is the integration of high-level planner and feedback control all in one single coherent policy network, which is generic for learning versatile balancing and recovery motions against unknown perturbations at arbitrary locations (e.g., legs, torso). Furthermore, the proposed framework allows the policy to be learned quickly by many state-of-the-art learning algorithms. By comparing our learned results to studies of preprogrammed, special-purpose controllers in the literature, self-learned skills are comparable in terms of disturbance rejection but with additional advantages of producing a wide range of adaptive, versatile and robust behaviors. 

Title: Intent-Aware Probabilistic Trajectory Estimation for Collision Prediction with Uncertainty Quantification
Abstract:  Collision prediction in a dynamic and unknown environment relies on knowledge of how the environment is changing. Many collision prediction methods rely on deterministic knowledge of how obstacles are moving in the environment. However, complete deterministic knowledge of the obstacles' motion is often unavailable. This work proposes a Gaussian process based prediction method that replaces the assumption of deterministic knowledge of each obstacle's future behavior with probabilistic knowledge, to allow a larger class of obstacles to be considered. The method solely relies on position and velocity measurements to predict collisions with dynamic obstacles. We show that the uncertainty region for obstacle positions can be expressed in terms of a combination of polynomials generated with Gaussian process regression. To control the growth of uncertainty over arbitrary time horizons, a probabilistic obstacle intention is assumed as a distribution over obstacle positions and velocities, which can be naturally included in the Gaussian process framework. Our approach is demonstrated in two case studies in which (i), an obstacle overtakes the agent and (ii), an obstacle crosses the agent's path perpendicularly. In these simulations we show that the collision can be predicted despite having limited knowledge of the obstacle's behavior. 

Title: Self-Supervised Localisation between Range Sensors and Overhead Imagery
Abstract:  Publicly available satellite imagery can be an ubiquitous, cheap, and powerful tool for vehicle localisation when a prior sensor map is unavailable. However, satellite images are not directly comparable to data from ground range sensors because of their starkly different modalities. We present a learned metric localisation method that not only handles the modality difference, but is cheap to train, learning in a self-supervised fashion without metrically accurate ground truth. By evaluating across multiple real-world datasets, we demonstrate the robustness and versatility of our method for various sensor configurations. We pay particular attention to the use of millimetre wave radar, which, owing to its complex interaction with the scene and its immunity to weather and lighting, makes for a compelling and valuable use case. 

Title: Real-world Object Recognition with Off-the-shelf Deep Conv Nets: How Many Objects can iCub Learn?
Abstract:  The ability to visually recognize objects is a fundamental skill for robotics systems. Indeed, a large variety of tasks involving manipulation, navigation or interaction with other agents, deeply depends on the accurate understanding of the visual scene. Yet, at the time being, robots are lacking good visual perceptual systems, which often become the main bottleneck preventing the use of autonomous agents for real-world applications. Lately in computer vision, systems that learn suitable visual representations and based on multi-layer deep convolutional networks are showing remarkable performance in tasks such as large-scale visual recognition and image retrieval. To this regard, it is natural to ask whether such remarkable performance would generalize also to the robotic setting. In this paper we investigate such possibility, while taking further steps in developing a computational vision system to be embedded on a robotic platform, the iCub humanoid robot. In particular, we release a new dataset ({\sc iCubWorld28}) that we use as a benchmark to address the question: {\it how many objects can iCub recognize?} Our study is developed in a learning framework which reflects the typical visual experience of a humanoid robot like the iCub. Experiments shed interesting insights on the strength and weaknesses of current computer vision approaches applied in real robotic settings. 

Title: FlowControl: Optical Flow Based Visual Servoing
Abstract:  One-shot imitation is the vision of robot programming from a single demonstration, rather than by tedious construction of computer code. We present a practical method for realizing one-shot imitation for manipulation tasks, exploiting modern learning-based optical flow to perform real-time visual servoing. Our approach, which we call FlowControl, continuously tracks a demonstration video, using a specified foreground mask to attend to an object of interest. Using RGB-D observations, FlowControl requires no 3D object models, and is easy to set up. FlowControl inherits great robustness to visual appearance from decades of work in optical flow. We exhibit FlowControl on a range of problems, including ones requiring very precise motions, and ones requiring the ability to generalize. 

Title: Weighted Unsupervised Learning for 3D Object Detection
Abstract:  This paper introduces a novel weighted unsupervised learning for object detection using an RGB-D camera. This technique is feasible for detecting the moving objects in the noisy environments that are captured by an RGB-D camera. The main contribution of this paper is a real-time algorithm for detecting each object using weighted clustering as a separate cluster. In a preprocessing step, the algorithm calculates the pose 3D position X, Y, Z and RGB color of each data point and then it calculates each data point's normal vector using the point's neighbor. After preprocessing, our algorithm calculates k-weights for each data point; each weight indicates membership. Resulting in clustered objects of the scene. 

Title: Macro Action Reinforcement Learning with Sequence Disentanglement using Variational Autoencoder
Abstract:  One problem in the application of reinforcement learning to real-world problems is the curse of dimensionality on the action space. Macro actions, a sequence of primitive actions, have been studied to diminish the dimensionality of the action space with regard to the time axis. However, previous studies relied on humans defining macro actions or assumed macro actions as repetitions of the same primitive actions. We present Factorized Macro Action Reinforcement Learning (FaMARL) which autonomously learns disentangled factor representation of a sequence of actions to generate macro actions that can be directly applied to general reinforcement learning algorithms. FaMARL exhibits higher scores than other reinforcement learning algorithms on environments that require an extensive amount of search. 

Title: X-View: Graph-Based Semantic Multi-View Localization
Abstract:  Global registration of multi-view robot data is a challenging task. Appearance-based global localization approaches often fail under drastic view-point changes, as representations have limited view-point invariance. This work is based on the idea that human-made environments contain rich semantics which can be used to disambiguate global localization. Here, we present X-View, a Multi-View Semantic Global Localization system. X-View leverages semantic graph descriptor matching for global localization, enabling localization under drastically different view-points. While the approach is general in terms of the semantic input data, we present and evaluate an implementation on visual data. We demonstrate the system in experiments on the publicly available SYNTHIA dataset, on a realistic urban dataset recorded with a simulator, and on real-world StreetView data. Our findings show that X-View is able to globally localize aerial-to-ground, and ground-to-ground robot data of drastically different view-points. Our approach achieves an accuracy of up to 85 % on global localizations in the multi-view case, while the benchmarked baseline appearance-based methods reach up to 75 %. 

Title: Explainable Semantic Mapping for First Responders
Abstract:  One of the key challenges in the semantic mapping problem in postdisaster environments is how to analyze a large amount of data efficiently with minimal supervision. To address this challenge, we propose a deep learning-based semantic mapping tool consisting of three main ideas. First, we develop a frugal semantic segmentation algorithm that uses only a small amount of labeled data. Next, we investigate on the problem of learning to detect a new class of object using just a few training examples. Finally, we develop an explainable cost map learning algorithm that can be quickly trained to generate traversability cost maps using only raw sensor data such as aerial-view imagery. This paper presents an overview of the proposed idea and the lessons learned. 

Title: DeepTIO: A Deep Thermal-Inertial Odometry with Visual Hallucination
Abstract:  Visual odometry shows excellent performance in a wide range of environments. However, in visually-denied scenarios (e.g. heavy smoke or darkness), pose estimates degrade or even fail. Thermal cameras are commonly used for perception and inspection when the environment has low visibility. However, their use in odometry estimation is hampered by the lack of robust visual features. In part, this is as a result of the sensor measuring the ambient temperature profile rather than scene appearance and geometry. To overcome this issue, we propose a Deep Neural Network model for thermal-inertial odometry (DeepTIO) by incorporating a visual hallucination network to provide the thermal network with complementary information. The hallucination network is taught to predict fake visual features from thermal images by using Huber loss. We also employ selective fusion to attentively fuse the features from three different modalities, i.e thermal, hallucination, and inertial features. Extensive experiments are performed in hand-held and mobile robot data in benign and smoke-filled environments, showing the efficacy of the proposed model. 

Title: Learning Visual Servoing with Deep Features and Fitted Q-Iteration
Abstract:  Visual servoing involves choosing actions that move a robot in response to observations from a camera, in order to reach a goal configuration in the world. Standard visual servoing approaches typically rely on manually designed features and analytical dynamics models, which limits their generalization capability and often requires extensive application-specific feature and model engineering. In this work, we study how learned visual features, learned predictive dynamics models, and reinforcement learning can be combined to learn visual servoing mechanisms. We focus on target following, with the goal of designing algorithms that can learn a visual servo using low amounts of data of the target in question, to enable quick adaptation to new targets. Our approach is based on servoing the camera in the space of learned visual features, rather than image pixels or manually-designed keypoints. We demonstrate that standard deep features, in our case taken from a model trained for object classification, can be used together with a bilinear predictive model to learn an effective visual servo that is robust to visual variation, changes in viewing angle and appearance, and occlusions. A key component of our approach is to use a sample-efficient fitted Q-iteration algorithm to learn which features are best suited for the task at hand. We show that we can learn an effective visual servo on a complex synthetic car following benchmark using just 20 training trajectory samples for reinforcement learning. We demonstrate substantial improvement over a conventional approach based on image pixels or hand-designed keypoints, and we show an improvement in sample-efficiency of more than two orders of magnitude over standard model-free deep reinforcement learning algorithms. Videos are available at http://rll.berkeley.edu/visual_servoing . 

Title: A Unifying Contrast Maximization Framework for Event Cameras, with Applications to Motion, Depth, and Optical Flow Estimation
Abstract:  We present a unifying framework to solve several computer vision problems with event cameras: motion, depth and optical flow estimation. The main idea of our framework is to find the point trajectories on the image plane that are best aligned with the event data by maximizing an objective function: the contrast of an image of warped events. Our method implicitly handles data association between the events, and therefore, does not rely on additional appearance information about the scene. In addition to accurately recovering the motion parameters of the problem, our framework produces motion-corrected edge-like images with high dynamic range that can be used for further scene analysis. The proposed method is not only simple, but more importantly, it is, to the best of our knowledge, the first method that can be successfully applied to such a diverse set of important vision tasks with event cameras. 

Title: Side-Tuning: A Baseline for Network Adaptation via Additive Side Networks
Abstract:  When training a neural network for a desired task, one may prefer to adapt a pre-trained network rather than starting from randomly initialized weights. Adaptation can be useful in cases when training data is scarce, when a single learner needs to perform multiple tasks, or when one wishes to encode priors in the network. The most commonly employed approaches for network adaptation are fine-tuning and using the pre-trained network as a fixed feature extractor, among others. In this paper, we propose a straightforward alternative: side-tuning. Side-tuning adapts a pre-trained network by training a lightweight "side" network that is fused with the (unchanged) pre-trained network via summation. This simple method works as well as or better than existing solutions and it resolves some of the basic issues with fine-tuning, fixed features, and other common approaches. In particular, side-tuning is less prone to overfitting, is asymptotically consistent, and does not suffer from catastrophic forgetting in incremental learning. We demonstrate the performance of side-tuning under a diverse set of scenarios, including incremental learning (iCIFAR, iTaskonomy), reinforcement learning, imitation learning (visual navigation in Habitat), NLP question-answering (SQuAD v2), and single-task transfer learning (Taskonomy), with consistently promising results. 

Title: PillarFlow: End-to-end Birds-eye-view Flow Estimation for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  In autonomous driving, accurately estimating the state of surrounding obstacles is critical for safe and robust path planning. However, this perception task is difficult, particularly for generic obstacles/objects, due to appearance and occlusion changes. To tackle this problem, we propose an end-to-end deep learning framework for LIDAR-based flow estimation in bird's eye view (BeV). Our method takes consecutive point cloud pairs as input and produces a 2-D BeV flow grid describing the dynamic state of each cell. The experimental results show that the proposed method not only estimates 2-D BeV flow accurately but also improves tracking performance of both dynamic and static objects. 

Title: Adaptive Curriculum Generation from Demonstrations for Sim-to-Real Visuomotor Control
Abstract:  We propose Adaptive Curriculum Generation from Demonstrations (ACGD) for reinforcement learning in the presence of sparse rewards. Rather than designing shaped reward functions, ACGD adaptively sets the appropriate task difficulty for the learner by controlling where to sample from the demonstration trajectories and which set of simulation parameters to use. We show that training vision-based control policies in simulation while gradually increasing the difficulty of the task via ACGD improves the policy transfer to the real world. The degree of domain randomization is also gradually increased through the task difficulty. We demonstrate zero-shot transfer for two real-world manipulation tasks: pick-and-stow and block stacking. A video showing the results can be found at https://lmb.informatik.uni-freiburg.de/projects/curriculum/ 

Title: Driving in Dense Traffic with Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Traditional planning and control methods could fail to find a feasible trajectory for an autonomous vehicle to execute amongst dense traffic on roads. This is because the obstacle-free volume in spacetime is very small in these scenarios for the vehicle to drive through. However, that does not mean the task is infeasible since human drivers are known to be able to drive amongst dense traffic by leveraging the cooperativeness of other drivers to open a gap. The traditional methods fail to take into account the fact that the actions taken by an agent affect the behaviour of other vehicles on the road. In this work, we rely on the ability of deep reinforcement learning to implicitly model such interactions and learn a continuous control policy over the action space of an autonomous vehicle. The application we consider requires our agent to negotiate and open a gap in the road in order to successfully merge or change lanes. Our policy learns to repeatedly probe into the target road lane while trying to find a safe spot to move in to. We compare against two model-predictive control-based algorithms and show that our policy outperforms them in simulation. 

Title: Robust Fusion of LiDAR and Wide-Angle Camera Data for Autonomous Mobile Robots
Abstract:  Autonomous robots that assist humans in day to day living tasks are becoming increasingly popular. Autonomous mobile robots operate by sensing and perceiving their surrounding environment to make accurate driving decisions. A combination of several different sensors such as LiDAR, radar, ultrasound sensors and cameras are utilized to sense the surrounding environment of autonomous vehicles. These heterogeneous sensors simultaneously capture various physical attributes of the environment. Such multimodality and redundancy of sensing need to be positively utilized for reliable and consistent perception of the environment through sensor data fusion. However, these multimodal sensor data streams are different from each other in many ways, such as temporal and spatial resolution, data format, and geometric alignment. For the subsequent perception algorithms to utilize the diversity offered by multimodal sensing, the data streams need to be spatially, geometrically and temporally aligned with each other. In this paper, we address the problem of fusing the outputs of a Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) scanner and a wide-angle monocular image sensor for free space detection. The outputs of LiDAR scanner and the image sensor are of different spatial resolutions and need to be aligned with each other. A geometrical model is used to spatially align the two sensor outputs, followed by a Gaussian Process (GP) regression-based resolution matching algorithm to interpolate the missing data with quantifiable uncertainty. The results indicate that the proposed sensor data fusion framework significantly aids the subsequent perception steps, as illustrated by the performance improvement of a uncertainty aware free space detection algorithm 

Title: A Transferable Pedestrian Motion Prediction Model for Intersections with Different Geometries
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel framework for accurate pedestrian intent prediction at intersections. Given some prior knowledge of the curbside geometry, the presented framework can accurately predict pedestrian trajectories, even in new intersections that it has not been trained on. This is achieved by making use of the contravariant components of trajectories in the curbside coordinate system, which ensures that the transformation of trajectories across intersections is affine, regardless of the curbside geometry. Our method is based on the Augmented Semi Nonnegative Sparse Coding (ASNSC) formulation and we use that as a baseline to show improvement in prediction performance on real pedestrian datasets collected at two intersections in Cambridge, with distinctly different curbside and crosswalk geometries. We demonstrate a 7.2% improvement in prediction accuracy in the case of same train and test intersections. Furthermore, we show a comparable prediction performance of TASNSC when trained and tested in different intersections with the baseline, trained and tested on the same intersection. 

Title: Grounding the Experience of a Visual Field through Sensorimotor Contingencies
Abstract:  Artificial perception is traditionally handled by hand-designing task specific algorithms. However, a truly autonomous robot should develop perceptive abilities on its own, by interacting with its environment, and adapting to new situations. The sensorimotor contingencies theory proposes to ground the development of those perceptive abilities in the way the agent can actively transform its sensory inputs. We propose a sensorimotor approach, inspired by this theory, in which the agent explores the world and discovers its properties by capturing the sensorimotor regularities they induce. This work presents an application of this approach to the discovery of a so-called visual field as the set of regularities that a visual sensor imposes on a naive agent's experience. A formalism is proposed to describe how those regularities can be captured in a sensorimotor predictive model. Finally, the approach is evaluated on a simulated system coarsely inspired from the human retina. 

Title: Synthesis of Biologically Realistic Human Motion Using Joint Torque Actuation
Abstract:  Using joint actuators to drive the skeletal movements is a common practice in character animation, but the resultant torque patterns are often unnatural or infeasible for real humans to achieve. On the other hand, physiologically-based models explicitly simulate muscles and tendons and thus produce more human-like movements and torque patterns. This paper introduces a technique to transform an optimal control problem formulated in the muscle-actuation space to an equivalent problem in the joint-actuation space, such that the solutions to both problems have the same optimal value. By solving the equivalent problem in the joint-actuation space, we can generate human-like motions comparable to those generated by musculotendon models, while retaining the benefit of simple modeling and fast computation offered by joint-actuation models. Our method transforms constant bounds on muscle activations to nonlinear, state-dependent torque limits in the joint-actuation space. In addition, the metabolic energy function on muscle activations is transformed to a nonlinear function of joint torques, joint configuration and joint velocity. Our technique can also benefit policy optimization using deep reinforcement learning approach, by providing a more anatomically realistic action space for the agent to explore during the learning process. We take the advantage of the physiologically-based simulator, OpenSim, to provide training data for learning the torque limits and the metabolic energy function. Once trained, the same torque limits and the energy function can be applied to drastically different motor tasks formulated as either trajectory optimization or policy learning. Codebase: https://github.com/jyf588/lrle and https://github.com/jyf588/lrle-rl-examples 

Title: Don't Forget The Past: Recurrent Depth Estimation from Monocular Video
Abstract:  Autonomous cars need continuously updated depth information. Thus far, depth is mostly estimated independently for a single frame at a time, even if the method starts from video input. Our method produces a time series of depth maps, which makes it an ideal candidate for online learning approaches. In particular, we put three different types of depth estimation (supervised depth prediction, self-supervised depth prediction, and self-supervised depth completion) into a common framework. We integrate the corresponding networks with a ConvLSTM such that the spatiotemporal structures of depth across frames can be exploited to yield a more accurate depth estimation. Our method is flexible. It can be applied to monocular videos only or be combined with different types of sparse depth patterns. We carefully study the architecture of the recurrent network and its training strategy. We are first to successfully exploit recurrent networks for real-time self-supervised monocular depth estimation and completion. Extensive experiments show that our recurrent method outperforms its image-based counterpart consistently and significantly in both self-supervised scenarios. It also outperforms previous depth estimation methods of the three popular groups. Please refer to https://www.trace.ethz.ch/publications/2020/rec_depth_estimation/ for details. 

Title: Doubly Robust Policy Evaluation and Learning
Abstract:  We study decision making in environments where the reward is only partially observed, but can be modeled as a function of an action and an observed context. This setting, known as contextual bandits, encompasses a wide variety of applications including health-care policy and Internet advertising. A central task is evaluation of a new policy given historic data consisting of contexts, actions and received rewards. The key challenge is that the past data typically does not faithfully represent proportions of actions taken by a new policy. Previous approaches rely either on models of rewards or models of the past policy. The former are plagued by a large bias whereas the latter have a large variance. In this work, we leverage the strength and overcome the weaknesses of the two approaches by applying the doubly robust technique to the problems of policy evaluation and optimization. We prove that this approach yields accurate value estimates when we have either a good (but not necessarily consistent) model of rewards or a good (but not necessarily consistent) model of past policy. Extensive empirical comparison demonstrates that the doubly robust approach uniformly improves over existing techniques, achieving both lower variance in value estimation and better policies. As such, we expect the doubly robust approach to become common practice. 

Title: Deep-Learning Assisted High-Resolution Binocular Stereo Depth Reconstruction
Abstract:  This work presents dense stereo reconstruction using high-resolution images for infrastructure inspections. The state-of-the-art stereo reconstruction methods, both learning and non-learning ones, consume too much computational resource on high-resolution data. Recent learning-based methods achieve top ranks on most benchmarks. However, they suffer from the generalization issue due to lack of task-specific training data. We propose to use a less resource demanding non-learning method, guided by a learning-based model, to handle high-resolution images and achieve accurate stereo reconstruction. The deep-learning model produces an initial disparity prediction with uncertainty for each pixel of the down-sampled stereo image pair. The uncertainty serves as a self-measurement of its generalization ability and the per-pixel searching range around the initially predicted disparity. The downstream process performs a modified version of the Semi-Global Block Matching method with the up-sampled per-pixel searching range. The proposed deep-learning assisted method is evaluated on the Middlebury dataset and high-resolution stereo images collected by our customized binocular stereo camera. The combination of learning and non-learning methods achieves better performance on 12 out of 15 cases of the Middlebury dataset. In our infrastructure inspection experiments, the average 3D reconstruction error is less than 0.004m. 

Title: LIT: Light-field Inference of Transparency for Refractive Object Localization
Abstract:  Translucency is prevalent in everyday scenes. As such, perception of transparent objects is essential for robots to perform manipulation. Compared with texture-rich or texture-less Lambertian objects, transparency induces significant uncertainty on object appearances. Ambiguity can be due to changes in lighting, viewpoint, and backgrounds, each of which brings challenges to existing object pose estimation algorithms. In this work, we propose LIT, a two-stage method for transparent object pose estimation using light-field sensing and photorealistic rendering. LIT employs multiple filters specific to light-field imagery in deep networks to capture transparent material properties, with robust depth and pose estimators based on generative sampling. Along with the LIT algorithm, we introduce the light-field transparent object dataset ProLIT for the tasks of recognition, localization and pose estimation. With respect to this ProLIT dataset, we demonstrate that LIT can outperform both state-of-the-art end-to-end pose estimation methods and a generative pose estimator on transparent objects. 

Title: Quantifying Hypothesis Space Misspecification in Learning from Human-Robot Demonstrations and Physical Corrections
Abstract:  Human input has enabled autonomous systems to improve their capabilities and achieve complex behaviors that are otherwise challenging to generate automatically. Recent work focuses on how robots can use such input - like demonstrations or corrections - to learn intended objectives. These techniques assume that the human's desired objective already exists within the robot's hypothesis space. In reality, this assumption is often inaccurate: there will always be situations where the person might care about aspects of the task that the robot does not know about. Without this knowledge, the robot cannot infer the correct objective. Hence, when the robot's hypothesis space is misspecified, even methods that keep track of uncertainty over the objective fail because they reason about which hypothesis might be correct, and not whether any of the hypotheses are correct. In this paper, we posit that the robot should reason explicitly about how well it can explain human inputs given its hypothesis space and use that situational confidence to inform how it should incorporate human input. We demonstrate our method on a 7 degree-of-freedom robot manipulator in learning from two important types of human input: demonstrations of manipulation tasks, and physical corrections during the robot's task execution. 

Title: Learning Transferable Policies for Monocular Reactive MAV Control
Abstract:  The ability to transfer knowledge gained in previous tasks into new contexts is one of the most important mechanisms of human learning. Despite this, adapting autonomous behavior to be reused in partially similar settings is still an open problem in current robotics research. In this paper, we take a small step in this direction and propose a generic framework for learning transferable motion policies. Our goal is to solve a learning problem in a target domain by utilizing the training data in a different but related source domain. We present this in the context of an autonomous MAV flight using monocular reactive control, and demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed approach through extensive real-world flight experiments in outdoor cluttered environments. 

Title: A Comparison of Action Spaces for Learning Manipulation Tasks
Abstract:  Designing reinforcement learning (RL) problems that can produce delicate and precise manipulation policies requires careful choice of the reward function, state, and action spaces. Much prior work on applying RL to manipulation tasks has defined the action space in terms of direct joint torques or reference positions for a joint-space proportional derivative (PD) controller. In practice, it is often possible to add additional structure by taking advantage of model-based controllers that support both accurate positioning and control of the dynamic response of the manipulator. In this paper, we evaluate how the choice of action space for dynamic manipulation tasks affects the sample complexity as well as the final quality of learned policies. We compare learning performance across three tasks (peg insertion, hammering, and pushing), four action spaces (torque, joint PD, inverse dynamics, and impedance control), and using two modern reinforcement learning algorithms (Proximal Policy Optimization and Soft Actor-Critic). Our results lend support to the hypothesis that learning references for a task-space impedance controller significantly reduces the number of samples needed to achieve good performance across all tasks and algorithms. 

Title: Towards Automated Safety Coverage and Testing for Autonomous Vehicles with Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  The kind of closed-loop verification likely to be required for autonomous vehicle (AV) safety testing is beyond the reach of traditional test methodologies and discrete verification. Validation puts the autonomous vehicle system to the test in scenarios or situations that the system would likely encounter in everyday driving after its release. These scenarios can either be controlled directly in a physical (closed-course proving ground) or virtual (simulation of predefined scenarios) environment, or they can arise spontaneously during operation in the real world (open-road testing or simulation of randomly generated scenarios). In AV testing, simulation serves primarily two purposes: to assist the development of a robust autonomous vehicle and to test and validate the AV before release. A challenge arises from the sheer number of scenario variations that can be constructed from each of the above sources due to the high number of variables involved (most of which are continuous). Even with continuous variables discretized, the possible number of combinations becomes practically infeasible to test. To overcome this challenge we propose using reinforcement learning (RL) to generate failure examples and unexpected traffic situations for the AV software implementation. Although reinforcement learning algorithms have achieved notable results in games and some robotic manipulations, this technique has not been widely scaled up to the more challenging real world applications like autonomous driving. 

Title: CityLearn: Diverse Real-World Environments for Sample-Efficient Navigation Policy Learning
Abstract:  Visual navigation tasks in real-world environments often require both self-motion and place recognition feedback. While deep reinforcement learning has shown success in solving these perception and decision-making problems in an end-to-end manner, these algorithms require large amounts of experience to learn navigation policies from high-dimensional data, which is generally impractical for real robots due to sample complexity. In this paper, we address these problems with two main contributions. We first leverage place recognition and deep learning techniques combined with goal destination feedback to generate compact, bimodal image representations that can then be used to effectively learn control policies from a small amount of experience. Second, we present an interactive framework, CityLearn, that enables for the first time training and deployment of navigation algorithms across city-sized, realistic environments with extreme visual appearance changes. CityLearn features more than 10 benchmark datasets, often used in visual place recognition and autonomous driving research, including over 100 recorded traversals across 60 cities around the world. We evaluate our approach on two CityLearn environments, training our navigation policy on a single traversal. Results show our method can be over 2 orders of magnitude faster than when using raw images, and can also generalize across extreme visual changes including day to night and summer to winter transitions. 

Title: Learning Model Predictive Control for Competitive Autonomous Racing
Abstract:  The goal of this thesis is to design a learning model predictive controller (LMPC) that allows multiple agents to race competitively on a predefined race track in real-time. This thesis addresses two major shortcomings in the already existing single-agent formulation. Previously, the agent determines a locally optimal trajectory but does not explore the state space, which may be necessary for overtaking maneuvers. Additionally, obstacle avoidance for LMPC has been achieved in the past by using a non-convex terminal set, which increases the complexity for determining a solution to the optimization problem. The proposed algorithm for multi-agent racing explores the state space by executing the LMPC for multiple different initializations, which yields a richer terminal safe set. Furthermore, a new method for selecting states in the terminal set is developed, which keeps the convexity for the terminal safe set and allows for taking suboptimal states. 

Title: Classifying cooking object's state using a tuned VGG convolutional neural network
Abstract:  In robotics, knowing the object states and recognizing the desired states are very important. Objects at different states would require different grasping. To achieve different states, different manipulations would be required, as well as different grasping. To analyze the objects at different states, a dataset of cooking objects was created. Cooking consists of various cutting techniques needed for different dishes (e.g. diced, julienne etc.). Identifying each of this state of cooking objects by the human can be difficult sometimes too. In this paper, we have analyzed seven different cooking object states by tuning a convolutional neural network (CNN). For this task, images were downloaded and annotated by students and they are divided into training and a completely different test set. By tuning the vgg-16 CNN 77% accuracy was obtained. The work presented in this paper focuses on classification between various object states rather than task recognition or recipe prediction. This framework can be easily adapted in any other object state classification activity. 

Title: PROBE: Predictive Robust Estimation for Visual-Inertial Navigation
Abstract:  Navigation in unknown, chaotic environments continues to present a significant challenge for the robotics community. Lighting changes, self-similar textures, motion blur, and moving objects are all considerable stumbling blocks for state-of-the-art vision-based navigation algorithms. In this paper we present a novel technique for improving localization accuracy within a visual-inertial navigation system (VINS). We make use of training data to learn a model for the quality of visual features with respect to localization error in a given environment. This model maps each visual observation from a predefined prediction space of visual-inertial predictors onto a scalar weight, which is then used to scale the observation covariance matrix. In this way, our model can adjust the influence of each observation according to its quality. We discuss our choice of predictors and report substantial reductions in localization error on 4 km of data from the KITTI dataset, as well as on experimental datasets consisting of 700 m of indoor and outdoor driving on a small ground rover equipped with a Skybotix VI-Sensor. 

Title: Gaussian Mixture Reduction Using Reverse Kullback-Leibler Divergence
Abstract:  We propose a greedy mixture reduction algorithm which is capable of pruning mixture components as well as merging them based on the Kullback-Leibler divergence (KLD). The algorithm is distinct from the well-known Runnalls' KLD based method since it is not restricted to merging operations. The capability of pruning (in addition to merging) gives the algorithm the ability of preserving the peaks of the original mixture during the reduction. Analytical approximations are derived to circumvent the computational intractability of the KLD which results in a computationally efficient method. The proposed algorithm is compared with Runnalls' and Williams' methods in two numerical examples, using both simulated and real world data. The results indicate that the performance and computational complexity of the proposed approach make it an efficient alternative to existing mixture reduction methods. 

Title: Enhancing LGMD's Looming Selectivity for UAVs with Spatial-temporal Distributed Presynaptic Connection
Abstract:  Collision detection is one of the most challenging tasks for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), especially for small or micro UAVs with limited computational power. In nature, fly insects with compact and simple visual systems demonstrate the amazing ability to navigating and avoid collision in a complex environment. A good example of this is locusts. Locusts avoid collision in a dense swarm relying on an identified vision neuron called Lobula Giant Movement Detector (LGMD) which has been modelled and applied on ground robots and vehicles. LGMD as a fly insect's visual neuron, is an ideal model for UAV collision detection. However, the existing models are inadequate in coping with complex visual challenges unique for UAVs. In this paper, we proposed a new LGMD model for flying robots considering distributed spatial-temporal computing for both excitation and inhibition to enhance the looming selectivity in flying scenes. The proposed model integrated recent discovered presynaptic connection types in biological LGMD neuron into a spatial-temporal filter with linear distributed interconnection. Systematic experiments containing quadcopter's first person view (FPV) flight videos demonstrated that the proposed distributed presynaptic structure can dramatically enhance LGMD's looming selectivity especially in complex flying UAV applications. 

Title: GMMLoc: Structure Consistent Visual Localization with Gaussian Mixture Models
Abstract:  Incorporating prior structure information into the visual state estimation could generally improve the localization performance. In this letter, we aim to address the paradox between accuracy and efficiency in coupling visual factors with structure constraints. To this end, we present a cross-modality method that tracks a camera in a prior map modelled by the Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM). With the pose estimated by the front-end initially, the local visual observations and map components are associated efficiently, and the visual structure from the triangulation is refined simultaneously. By introducing the hybrid structure factors into the joint optimization, the camera poses are bundle-adjusted with the local visual structure. By evaluating our complete system, namely GMMLoc, on the public dataset, we show how our system can provide a centimeter-level localization accuracy with only trivial computational overhead. In addition, the comparative studies with the state-of-the-art vision-dominant state estimators demonstrate the competitive performance of our method. 

Title: SLAM Endoscopy enhanced by adversarial depth prediction
Abstract:  Medical endoscopy remains a challenging application for simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) due to the sparsity of image features and size constraints that prevent direct depth-sensing. We present a SLAM approach that incorporates depth predictions made by an adversarially-trained convolutional neural network (CNN) applied to monocular endoscopy images. The depth network is trained with synthetic images of a simple colon model, and then fine-tuned with domain-randomized, photorealistic images rendered from computed tomography measurements of human colons. Each image is paired with an error-free depth map for supervised adversarial learning. Monocular RGB images are then fused with corresponding depth predictions, enabling dense reconstruction and mosaicing as an endoscope is advanced through the gastrointestinal tract. Our preliminary results demonstrate that incorporating monocular depth estimation into a SLAM architecture can enable dense reconstruction of endoscopic scenes. 

Title: Navigational Instruction Generation as Inverse Reinforcement Learning with Neural Machine Translation
Abstract:  Modern robotics applications that involve human-robot interaction require robots to be able to communicate with humans seamlessly and effectively. Natural language provides a flexible and efficient medium through which robots can exchange information with their human partners. Significant advancements have been made in developing robots capable of interpreting free-form instructions, but less attention has been devoted to endowing robots with the ability to generate natural language. We propose a navigational guide model that enables robots to generate natural language instructions that allow humans to navigate a priori unknown environments. We first decide which information to share with the user according to their preferences, using a policy trained from human demonstrations via inverse reinforcement learning. We then "translate" this information into a natural language instruction using a neural sequence-to-sequence model that learns to generate free-form instructions from natural language corpora. We evaluate our method on a benchmark route instruction dataset and achieve a BLEU score of 72.18% when compared to human-generated reference instructions. We additionally conduct navigation experiments with human participants that demonstrate that our method generates instructions that people follow as accurately and easily as those produced by humans. 

Title: Model-Based Policy Search for Automatic Tuning of Multivariate PID Controllers
Abstract:  PID control architectures are widely used in industrial applications. Despite their low number of open parameters, tuning multiple, coupled PID controllers can become tedious in practice. In this paper, we extend PILCO, a model-based policy search framework, to automatically tune multivariate PID controllers purely based on data observed on an otherwise unknown system. The system's state is extended appropriately to frame the PID policy as a static state feedback policy. This renders PID tuning possible as the solution of a finite horizon optimal control problem without further a priori knowledge. The framework is applied to the task of balancing an inverted pendulum on a seven degree-of-freedom robotic arm, thereby demonstrating its capabilities of fast and data-efficient policy learning, even on complex real world problems. 

Title: Latent Space Reinforcement Learning for Steering Angle Prediction
Abstract:  Model-free reinforcement learning has recently been shown to successfully learn navigation policies from raw sensor data. In this work, we address the problem of learning driving policies for an autonomous agent in a high-fidelity simulator. Building upon recent research that applies deep reinforcement learning to navigation problems, we present a modular deep reinforcement learning approach to predict the steering angle of the car from raw images. The first module extracts a low-dimensional latent semantic representation of the image. The control module trained with reinforcement learning takes the latent vector as input to predict the correct steering angle. The experimental results have showed that our method is capable of learning to maneuver the car without any human control signals. 

Title: Explaining How a Deep Neural Network Trained with End-to-End Learning Steers a Car
Abstract:  As part of a complete software stack for autonomous driving, NVIDIA has created a neural-network-based system, known as PilotNet, which outputs steering angles given images of the road ahead. PilotNet is trained using road images paired with the steering angles generated by a human driving a data-collection car. It derives the necessary domain knowledge by observing human drivers. This eliminates the need for human engineers to anticipate what is important in an image and foresee all the necessary rules for safe driving. Road tests demonstrated that PilotNet can successfully perform lane keeping in a wide variety of driving conditions, regardless of whether lane markings are present or not. The goal of the work described here is to explain what PilotNet learns and how it makes its decisions. To this end we developed a method for determining which elements in the road image most influence PilotNet's steering decision. Results show that PilotNet indeed learns to recognize relevant objects on the road. In addition to learning the obvious features such as lane markings, edges of roads, and other cars, PilotNet learns more subtle features that would be hard to anticipate and program by engineers, for example, bushes lining the edge of the road and atypical vehicle classes. 

Title: Learning Object Arrangements in 3D Scenes using Human Context
Abstract:  We consider the problem of learning object arrangements in a 3D scene. The key idea here is to learn how objects relate to human poses based on their affordances, ease of use and reachability. In contrast to modeling object-object relationships, modeling human-object relationships scales linearly in the number of objects. We design appropriate density functions based on 3D spatial features to capture this. We learn the distribution of human poses in a scene using a variant of the Dirichlet process mixture model that allows sharing of the density function parameters across the same object types. Then we can reason about arrangements of the objects in the room based on these meaningful human poses. In our extensive experiments on 20 different rooms with a total of 47 objects, our algorithm predicted correct placements with an average error of 1.6 meters from ground truth. In arranging five real scenes, it received a score of 4.3/5 compared to 3.7 for the best baseline method. 

Title: Autonomous Vehicles Meet the Physical World: RSS, Variability, Uncertainty, and Proving Safety (Expanded Version)
Abstract:  The Responsibility-Sensitive Safety (RSS) model offers provable safety for vehicle behaviors such as minimum safe following distance. However, handling worst-case variability and uncertainty may significantly lower vehicle permissiveness, and in some situations safety cannot be guaranteed. Digging deeper into Newtonian mechanics, we identify complications that result from considering vehicle status, road geometry and environmental parameters. An especially challenging situation occurs if these parameters change during the course of a collision avoidance maneuver such as hard braking. As part of our analysis, we expand the original RSS following distance equation to account for edge cases involving potential collisions mid-way through a braking process. We additionally propose a Micro-Operational Design Domain ({\mu}ODD) approach to subdividing the operational space as a way of improving permissiveness. Confining probabilistic aspects of safety to {\mu}ODD transitions permits proving safety (when possible) under the assumption that the system has transitioned to the correct {\mu}ODD for the situation. Each {\mu}ODD can additionally be used to encode system fault responses, take credit for advisory information (e.g., from vehicle-to-vehicle communication), and anticipate likely emergent situations. 

Title: TriFinger: An Open-Source Robot for Learning Dexterity
Abstract:  Dexterous object manipulation remains an open problem in robotics, despite the rapid progress in machine learning during the past decade. We argue that a hindrance is the high cost of experimentation on real systems, in terms of both time and money. We address this problem by proposing an open-source robotic platform which can safely operate without human supervision. The hardware is inexpensive (about \SI{5000}[\$]{}) yet highly dynamic, robust, and capable of complex interaction with external objects. The software operates at 1-kilohertz and performs safety checks to prevent the hardware from breaking. The easy-to-use front-end (in C++ and Python) is suitable for real-time control as well as deep reinforcement learning. In addition, the software framework is largely robot-agnostic and can hence be used independently of the hardware proposed herein. Finally, we illustrate the potential of the proposed platform through a number of experiments, including real-time optimal control, deep reinforcement learning from scratch, throwing, and writing. 

Title: Probabilistic Multi-modal Trajectory Prediction with Lane Attention for Autonomous Vehicles
Abstract:  Trajectory prediction is crucial for autonomous vehicles. The planning system not only needs to know the current state of the surrounding objects but also their possible states in the future. As for vehicles, their trajectories are significantly influenced by the lane geometry and how to effectively use the lane information is of active interest. Most of the existing works use rasterized maps to explore road information, which does not distinguish different lanes. In this paper, we propose a novel instance-aware representation for lane representation. By integrating the lane features and trajectory features, a goal-oriented lane attention module is proposed to predict the future locations of the vehicle. We show that the proposed lane representation together with the lane attention module can be integrated into the widely used encoder-decoder framework to generate diverse predictions. Most importantly, each generated trajectory is associated with a probability to handle the uncertainty. Our method does not suffer from collapsing to one behavior modal and can cover diverse possibilities. Extensive experiments and ablation studies on the benchmark datasets corroborate the effectiveness of our proposed method. Notably, our proposed method ranks third place in the Argoverse motion forecasting competition at NeurIPS 2019. 

Title: Comparative Design Space Exploration of Dense and Semi-Dense SLAM
Abstract:  SLAM has matured significantly over the past few years, and is beginning to appear in serious commercial products. While new SLAM systems are being proposed at every conference, evaluation is often restricted to qualitative visualizations or accuracy estimation against a ground truth. This is due to the lack of benchmarking methodologies which can holistically and quantitatively evaluate these systems. Further investigation at the level of individual kernels and parameter spaces of SLAM pipelines is non-existent, which is absolutely essential for systems research and integration. We extend the recently introduced SLAMBench framework to allow comparing two state-of-the-art SLAM pipelines, namely KinectFusion and LSD-SLAM, along the metrics of accuracy, energy consumption, and processing frame rate on two different hardware platforms, namely a desktop and an embedded device. We also analyze the pipelines at the level of individual kernels and explore their algorithmic and hardware design spaces for the first time, yielding valuable insights. 

Title: Prediction of Human Full-Body Movements with Motion Optimization and Recurrent Neural Networks
Abstract:  Human movement prediction is difficult as humans naturally exhibit complex behaviors that can change drastically from one environment to the next. In order to alleviate this issue, we propose a prediction framework that decouples short-term prediction, linked to internal body dynamics, and long-term prediction, linked to the environment and task constraints. In this work we investigate encoding short-term dynamics in a recurrent neural network, while we account for environmental constraints, such as obstacle avoidance, using gradient-based trajectory optimization. Experiments on real motion data demonstrate that our framework improves the prediction with respect to state-of-the-art motion prediction methods, as it accounts to beforehand unseen environmental structures. Moreover we demonstrate on an example, how this framework can be used to plan robot trajectories that are optimized to coordinate with a human partner. 

Title: StereoNeuroBayesSLAM: A Neurobiologically Inspired Stereo Visual SLAM System Based on Direct Sparse Method
Abstract:  We propose a neurobiologically inspired visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) system based on direction sparse method to real-time build cognitive maps of large-scale environments from a moving stereo camera. The core SLAM system mainly comprises a Bayesian attractor network, which utilizes neural responses of head direction (HD) cells in the hippocampus and grid cells in the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) to represent the head direction and the position of the robot in the environment, respectively. Direct sparse method is employed to accurately and robustly estimate velocity information from a stereo camera. Input rotational and translational velocities are integrated by the HD cell and grid cell networks, respectively. We demonstrated our neurobiologically inspired stereo visual SLAM system on the KITTI odometry benchmark datasets. Our proposed SLAM system is robust to real-time build a coherent semi-metric topological map from a stereo camera. Qualitative evaluation on cognitive maps shows that our proposed neurobiologically inspired stereo visual SLAM system outperforms our previous brain-inspired algorithms and the neurobiologically inspired monocular visual SLAM system both in terms of tracking accuracy and robustness, which is closer to the traditional state-of-the-art one. 

Title: Autonomous navigation for low-altitude UAVs in urban areas
Abstract:  In recent years, consumer Unmanned Aerial Vehicles have become very popular, everyone can buy and fly a drone without previous experience, which raises concern in regards to regulations and public safety. In this paper, we present a novel approach towards enabling safe operation of such vehicles in urban areas. Our method uses geodetically accurate dataset images with Geographical Information System (GIS) data of road networks and buildings provided by Google Maps, to compute a weighted A* shortest path from start to end locations of a mission. Weights represent the potential risk of injuries for individuals in all categories of land-use, i.e. flying over buildings is considered safer than above roads. We enable safe UAV operation in regards to 1- land-use by computing a static global path dependent on environmental structures, and 2- avoiding flying over moving objects such as cars and pedestrians by dynamically optimizing the path locally during the flight. As all input sources are first geo-registered, pixels and GPS coordinates are equivalent, it therefore allows us to generate an automated and user-friendly mission with GPS waypoints readable by consumer drones' autopilots. We simulated 54 missions and show significant improvement in maximizing UAV's standoff distance to moving objects with a quantified safety parameter over 40 times better than the naive straight line navigation. 

Title: Socially Compliant Navigation through Raw Depth Inputs with Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning
Abstract:  We present an approach for mobile robots to learn to navigate in dynamic environments with pedestrians via raw depth inputs, in a socially compliant manner. To achieve this, we adopt a generative adversarial imitation learning (GAIL) strategy, which improves upon a pre-trained behavior cloning policy. Our approach overcomes the disadvantages of previous methods, as they heavily depend on the full knowledge of the location and velocity information of nearby pedestrians, which not only requires specific sensors, but also the extraction of such state information from raw sensory input could consume much computation time. In this paper, our proposed GAIL-based model performs directly on raw depth inputs and plans in real-time. Experiments show that our GAIL-based approach greatly improves the safety and efficiency of the behavior of mobile robots from pure behavior cloning. The real-world deployment also shows that our method is capable of guiding autonomous vehicles to navigate in a socially compliant manner directly through raw depth inputs. In addition, we release a simulation plugin for modeling pedestrian behaviors based on the social force model. 

Title: How to improve CNN-based 6-DoF camera pose estimation
Abstract:  Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and transfer learning have recently been used for 6 degrees of freedom (6-DoF) camera pose estimation. While they do not reach the same accuracy as visual SLAM-based approaches and are restricted to a specific environment, they excel in robustness and can be applied even to a single image. In this paper, we study PoseNet [1] and investigate modifications based on datasets' characteristics to improve the accuracy of the pose estimates. In particular, we emphasize the importance of field-of-view over image resolution; we present a data augmentation scheme to reduce overfitting; we study the effect of Long-Short-Term-Memory (LSTM) cells. Lastly, we combine these modifications and improve PoseNet's performance for monocular CNN based camera pose regression. 

Title: Counterfactual Data Augmentation using Locally Factored Dynamics
Abstract:  Many dynamic processes, including common scenarios in robotic control and reinforcement learning (RL), involve a set of interacting subprocesses. Though the subprocesses are not independent, their interactions are often sparse, and the dynamics at any given time step can often be decomposed into locally independent causal mechanisms. Such local causal structures can be leveraged to improve the sample efficiency of sequence prediction and off-policy reinforcement learning. We formalize this by introducing local causal models (LCMs), which are induced from a global causal model by conditioning on a subset of the state space. We propose an approach to inferring these structures given an object-oriented state representation, as well as a novel algorithm for model-free Counterfactual Data Augmentation (CoDA). CoDA uses local structures and an experience replay to generate counterfactual experiences that are causally valid in the global model. We find that CoDA significantly improves the performance of RL agents in locally factored tasks, including the batch-constrained and goal-conditioned settings. 

Title: Adaptive Simulation-based Training of AI Decision-makers using Bayesian Optimization
Abstract:  This work studies how an AI-controlled dog-fighting agent with tunable decision-making parameters can learn to optimize performance against an intelligent adversary, as measured by a stochastic objective function evaluated on simulated combat engagements. Gaussian process Bayesian optimization (GPBO) techniques are developed to automatically learn global Gaussian Process (GP) surrogate models, which provide statistical performance predictions in both explored and unexplored areas of the parameter space. This allows a learning engine to sample full-combat simulations at parameter values that are most likely to optimize performance and also provide highly informative data points for improving future predictions. However, standard GPBO methods do not provide a reliable surrogate model for the highly volatile objective functions found in aerial combat, and thus do not reliably identify global maxima. These issues are addressed by novel Repeat Sampling (RS) and Hybrid Repeat/Multi-point Sampling (HRMS) techniques. Simulation studies show that HRMS improves the accuracy of GP surrogate models, allowing AI decision-makers to more accurately predict performance and efficiently tune parameters. 

Title: Road Detection Technique Using Filters with Application to Autonomous Driving System
Abstract:  Autonomous driving systems are broadly used equipment in the industries and in our daily lives, they assist in production, but are majorly used for exploration in dangerous or unfamiliar locations. Thus, for a successful exploration, navigation plays a significant role. Road detection is an essential factor that assists autonomous robots achieved perfect navigation. Various techniques using camera sensors have been proposed by numerous scholars with inspiring results, but their techniques are still vulnerable to these environmental noises: rain, snow, light intensity and shadow. In addressing these problems, this paper proposed to enhance the road detection system with filtering algorithm to overcome these limitations. Normalized Differences Index (NDI) and morphological operation are the filtering algorithms used to address the effect of shadow and guidance and re-guidance image filtering algorithms are used to address the effect of rain and/or snow, while dark channel image and specular-to-diffuse are the filters used to address light intensity effects. The experimental performance of the road detection system with filtering algorithms was tested qualitatively and quantitatively using the following evaluation schemes: False Negative Rate (FNR) and False Positive Rate (FPR). Comparison results of the road detection system with and without filtering algorithm shows the filtering algorithm's capability to suppress the effect of environmental noises because better road/non-road classification is achieved by the road detection system. with filtering algorithm. This achievement has further improved path planning/region classification for autonomous driving system 

Title: Optimizing Collision Avoidance in Dense Airspace using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  New methodologies will be needed to ensure the airspace remains safe and efficient as traffic densities rise to accommodate new unmanned operations. This paper explores how unmanned free-flight traffic may operate in dense airspace. We develop and analyze autonomous collision avoidance systems for aircraft operating in dense airspace where traditional collision avoidance systems fail. We propose a metric for quantifying the decision burden on a collision avoidance system as well as a metric for measuring the impact of the collision avoidance system on airspace. We use deep reinforcement learning to compute corrections for an existing collision avoidance approach to account for dense airspace. The results show that a corrected collision avoidance system can operate more efficiently than traditional methods in dense airspace while maintaining high levels of safety. 

Title: Lyceum: An efficient and scalable ecosystem for robot learning
Abstract:  We introduce Lyceum, a high-performance computational ecosystem for robot learning. Lyceum is built on top of the Julia programming language and the MuJoCo physics simulator, combining the ease-of-use of a high-level programming language with the performance of native C. In addition, Lyceum has a straightforward API to support parallel computation across multiple cores and machines. Overall, depending on the complexity of the environment, Lyceum is 5-30x faster compared to other popular abstractions like OpenAI's Gym and DeepMind's dm-control. This substantially reduces training time for various reinforcement learning algorithms; and is also fast enough to support real-time model predictive control through MuJoCo. The code, tutorials, and demonstration videos can be found at: www.lyceum.ml. 

Title: From Simulation to Real World Maneuver Execution using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Deep Reinforcement Learning has proved to be able to solve many control tasks in different fields, but the behavior of these systems is not always as expected when deployed in real-world scenarios. This is mainly due to the lack of domain adaptation between simulated and real-world data together with the absence of distinction between train and test datasets. In this work, we investigate these problems in the autonomous driving field, especially for a maneuver planning module for roundabout insertions. In particular, we present a system based on multiple environments in which agents are trained simultaneously, evaluating the behavior of the model in different scenarios. Finally, we analyze techniques aimed at reducing the gap between simulated and real-world data showing that this increased the generalization capabilities of the system both on unseen and real-world scenarios. 

Title: LandmarkBoost: Efficient Visual Context Classifiers for Robust Localization
Abstract:  The growing popularity of autonomous systems creates a need for reliable and efficient metric pose retrieval algorithms. Currently used approaches tend to rely on nearest neighbor search of binary descriptors to perform the 2D-3D matching and guarantee realtime capabilities on mobile platforms. These methods struggle, however, with the growing size of the map, changes in viewpoint or appearance, and visual aliasing present in the environment. The rigidly defined descriptor patterns only capture a limited neighborhood of the keypoint and completely ignore the overall visual context. We propose LandmarkBoost - an approach that, in contrast to the conventional 2D-3D matching methods, casts the search problem as a landmark classification task. We use a boosted classifier to classify landmark observations and directly obtain correspondences as classifier scores. We also introduce a formulation of visual context that is flexible, efficient to compute, and can capture relationships in the entire image plane. The original binary descriptors are augmented with contextual information and informative features are selected by the boosting framework. Through detailed experiments, we evaluate the retrieval quality and performance of LandmarkBoost, demonstrating that it outperforms common state-of-the-art descriptor matching methods. 

Title: Improving 6D Pose Estimation of Objects in Clutter via Physics-aware Monte Carlo Tree Search
Abstract:  This work proposes a process for efficiently searching over combinations of individual object 6D pose hypotheses in cluttered scenes, especially in cases involving occlusions and objects resting on each other. The initial set of candidate object poses is generated from state-of-the-art object detection and global point cloud registration techniques. The best-scored pose per object by using these techniques may not be accurate due to overlaps and occlusions. Nevertheless, experimental indications provided in this work show that object poses with lower ranks may be closer to the real poses than ones with high ranks according to registration techniques. This motivates a global optimization process for improving these poses by taking into account scene-level physical interactions between objects. It also implies that the Cartesian product of candidate poses for interacting objects must be searched so as to identify the best scene-level hypothesis. To perform the search efficiently, the candidate poses for each object are clustered so as to reduce their number but still keep a sufficient diversity. Then, searching over the combinations of candidate object poses is performed through a Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) process that uses the similarity between the observed depth image of the scene and a rendering of the scene given the hypothesized pose as a score that guides the search procedure. MCTS handles in a principled way the tradeoff between fine-tuning the most promising poses and exploring new ones, by using the Upper Confidence Bound (UCB) technique. Experimental results indicate that this process is able to quickly identify in cluttered scenes physically-consistent object poses that are significantly closer to ground truth compared to poses found by point cloud registration methods. 

Title: Simple Sensor Intentions for Exploration
Abstract:  Modern reinforcement learning algorithms can learn solutions to increasingly difficult control problems while at the same time reduce the amount of prior knowledge needed for their application. One of the remaining challenges is the definition of reward schemes that appropriately facilitate exploration without biasing the solution in undesirable ways, and that can be implemented on real robotic systems without expensive instrumentation. In this paper we focus on a setting in which goal tasks are defined via simple sparse rewards, and exploration is facilitated via agent-internal auxiliary tasks. We introduce the idea of simple sensor intentions (SSIs) as a generic way to define auxiliary tasks. SSIs reduce the amount of prior knowledge that is required to define suitable rewards. They can further be computed directly from raw sensor streams and thus do not require expensive and possibly brittle state estimation on real systems. We demonstrate that a learning system based on these rewards can solve complex robotic tasks in simulation and in real world settings. In particular, we show that a real robotic arm can learn to grasp and lift and solve a Ball-in-a-Cup task from scratch, when only raw sensor streams are used for both controller input and in the auxiliary reward definition. 

Title: Resolution-Enhanced MRI-Guided Navigation of Spinal Cellular Injection Robot
Abstract:  This paper presents a method of navigating a surgical robot beyond the resolution of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) by using a resolution enhancement technique enabled by high-precision piezoelectric actuation. The surgical robot was specifically designed for injecting stem cells into the spinal cord. This particular therapy can be performed in a shorter time by using a MRI-compatible robotic platform than by using a manual needle positioning platform. Imaging resolution of fiducial markers attached to the needle guide tubing was enhanced by reconstructing a high-resolution image from multiple images with sub-pixel movements of the robot. The parallel-plane direct-drive needle positioning mechanism positioned the needle guide with a high spatial precision that is two orders of magnitude higher than typical MRI resolution up to 1 mm. Reconstructed resolution enhanced images were used to navigate the robot precisely that would not have been possible by using standard MRI. Experiments were conducted to verify the effectiveness of the proposed enhanced-resolution image-guided intervention. 

Title: PoseNet: A Convolutional Network for Real-Time 6-DOF Camera Relocalization
Abstract:  We present a robust and real-time monocular six degree of freedom relocalization system. Our system trains a convolutional neural network to regress the 6-DOF camera pose from a single RGB image in an end-to-end manner with no need of additional engineering or graph optimisation. The algorithm can operate indoors and outdoors in real time, taking 5ms per frame to compute. It obtains approximately 2m and 6 degree accuracy for large scale outdoor scenes and 0.5m and 10 degree accuracy indoors. This is achieved using an efficient 23 layer deep convnet, demonstrating that convnets can be used to solve complicated out of image plane regression problems. This was made possible by leveraging transfer learning from large scale classification data. We show the convnet localizes from high level features and is robust to difficult lighting, motion blur and different camera intrinsics where point based SIFT registration fails. Furthermore we show how the pose feature that is produced generalizes to other scenes allowing us to regress pose with only a few dozen training examples. PoseNet code, dataset and an online demonstration is available on our project webpage, at http://mi.eng.cam.ac.uk/projects/relocalisation/ 

Title: RTM3D: Real-time Monocular 3D Detection from Object Keypoints for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  In this work, we propose an efficient and accurate monocular 3D detection framework in single shot. Most successful 3D detectors take the projection constraint from the 3D bounding box to the 2D box as an important component. Four edges of a 2D box provide only four constraints and the performance deteriorates dramatically with the small error of the 2D detector. Different from these approaches, our method predicts the nine perspective keypoints of a 3D bounding box in image space, and then utilize the geometric relationship of 3D and 2D perspectives to recover the dimension, location, and orientation in 3D space. In this method, the properties of the object can be predicted stably even when the estimation of keypoints is very noisy, which enables us to obtain fast detection speed with a small architecture. Training our method only uses the 3D properties of the object without the need for external networks or supervision data. Our method is the first real-time system for monocular image 3D detection while achieves state-of-the-art performance on the KITTI benchmark. Code will be released at https://github.com/Banconxuan/RTM3D. 

Title: Modular Sensor Fusion for Semantic Segmentation
Abstract:  Sensor fusion is a fundamental process in robotic systems as it extends the perceptual range and increases robustness in real-world operations. Current multi-sensor deep learning based semantic segmentation approaches do not provide robustness to under-performing classes in one modality, or require a specific architecture with access to the full aligned multi-sensor training data. In this work, we analyze statistical fusion approaches for semantic segmentation that overcome these drawbacks while keeping a competitive performance. The studied approaches are modular by construction, allowing to have different training sets per modality and only a much smaller subset is needed to calibrate the statistical models. We evaluate a range of statistical fusion approaches and report their performance against state-of-the-art baselines on both real-world and simulated data. In our experiments, the approach improves performance in IoU over the best single modality segmentation results by up to 5%. We make all implementations and configurations publicly available. 

Title: A Robust Stereo Camera Localization Method with Prior LiDAR Map Constrains
Abstract:  In complex environments, low-cost and robust localization is a challenging problem. For example, in a GPSdenied environment, LiDAR can provide accurate position information, but the cost is high. In general, visual SLAM based localization methods become unreliable when the sunlight changes greatly. Therefore, inexpensive and reliable methods are required. In this paper, we propose a stereo visual localization method based on the prior LiDAR map. Different from the conventional visual localization system, we design a novel visual optimization model by matching planar information between the LiDAR map and visual image. Bundle adjustment is built by using coplanarity constraints. To solve the optimization problem, we use a graph-based optimization algorithm and a local window optimization method. Finally, we estimate a full six degrees of freedom (DOF) pose without scale drift. To validate the efficiency, the proposed method has been tested on the KITTI dataset. The results show that our method is more robust and accurate than the state-of-art ORB-SLAM2. 

Title: Automatic Calibration of Multiple 3D LiDARs in Urban Environments
Abstract:  Multiple LiDARs have progressively emerged on autonomous vehicles for rendering a wide field of view and dense measurements. However, the lack of precise calibration negatively affects their potential applications in localization and perception systems. In this paper, we propose a novel system that enables automatic multi-LiDAR calibration without any calibration target, prior environmental information, and initial values of the extrinsic parameters. Our approach starts with a hand-eye calibration for automatic initialization by aligning the estimated motions of each sensor. The resulting parameters are then refined with an appearance-based method by minimizing a cost function constructed from point-plane correspondences. Experimental results on simulated and real-world data sets demonstrate the reliability and accuracy of our calibration approach. The proposed approach can calibrate a multi-LiDAR system with the rotation and translation errors less than 0.04 [rad] and 0.1 [m] respectively for a mobile platform. 

Title: Multimodal Deep Learning for Robust RGB-D Object Recognition
Abstract:  Robust object recognition is a crucial ingredient of many, if not all, real-world robotics applications. This paper leverages recent progress on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and proposes a novel RGB-D architecture for object recognition. Our architecture is composed of two separate CNN processing streams - one for each modality - which are consecutively combined with a late fusion network. We focus on learning with imperfect sensor data, a typical problem in real-world robotics tasks. For accurate learning, we introduce a multi-stage training methodology and two crucial ingredients for handling depth data with CNNs. The first, an effective encoding of depth information for CNNs that enables learning without the need for large depth datasets. The second, a data augmentation scheme for robust learning with depth images by corrupting them with realistic noise patterns. We present state-of-the-art results on the RGB-D object dataset and show recognition in challenging RGB-D real-world noisy settings. 

Title: Generalized Hindsight for Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  One of the key reasons for the high sample complexity in reinforcement learning (RL) is the inability to transfer knowledge from one task to another. In standard multi-task RL settings, low-reward data collected while trying to solve one task provides little to no signal for solving that particular task and is hence effectively wasted. However, we argue that this data, which is uninformative for one task, is likely a rich source of information for other tasks. To leverage this insight and efficiently reuse data, we present Generalized Hindsight: an approximate inverse reinforcement learning technique for relabeling behaviors with the right tasks. Intuitively, given a behavior generated under one task, Generalized Hindsight returns a different task that the behavior is better suited for. Then, the behavior is relabeled with this new task before being used by an off-policy RL optimizer. Compared to standard relabeling techniques, Generalized Hindsight provides a substantially more efficient reuse of samples, which we empirically demonstrate on a suite of multi-task navigation and manipulation tasks. Videos and code can be accessed here: https://sites.google.com/view/generalized-hindsight. 

Title: Adaptive Online Planning for Continual Lifelong Learning
Abstract:  We study learning control in an online reset-free lifelong learning scenario, where mistakes can compound catastrophically into the future and the underlying dynamics of the environment may change. Traditional model-free policy learning methods have achieved successes in difficult tasks due to their broad flexibility, but struggle in this setting, as they can activate failure modes early in their lifetimes which are difficult to recover from and face performance degradation as dynamics change. On the other hand, model-based planning methods learn and adapt quickly, but require prohibitive levels of computational resources. We present a new algorithm, Adaptive Online Planning (AOP), that achieves strong performance in this setting by combining model-based planning with model-free learning. By approximating the uncertainty of the model-free components and the planner performance, AOP is able to call upon more extensive planning only when necessary, leading to reduced computation times, while still gracefully adapting behaviors in the face of unpredictable changes in the world -- even when traditional RL fails. 

Title: Grounding Language Attributes to Objects using Bayesian Eigenobjects
Abstract:  We develop a system to disambiguate object instances within the same class based on simple physical descriptions. The system takes as input a natural language phrase and a depth image containing a segmented object and predicts how similar the observed object is to the object described by the phrase. Our system is designed to learn from only a small amount of human-labeled language data and generalize to viewpoints not represented in the language-annotated depth image training set. By decoupling 3D shape representation from language representation, this method is able to ground language to novel objects using a small amount of language-annotated depth-data and a larger corpus of unlabeled 3D object meshes, even when these objects are partially observed from unusual viewpoints. Our system is able to disambiguate between novel objects, observed via depth images, based on natural language descriptions. Our method also enables view-point transfer; trained on human-annotated data on a small set of depth images captured from frontal viewpoints, our system successfully predicted object attributes from rear views despite having no such depth images in its training set. Finally, we demonstrate our approach on a Baxter robot, enabling it to pick specific objects based on human-provided natural language descriptions. 

Title: MIMC-VINS: A Versatile and Resilient Multi-IMU Multi-Camera Visual-Inertial Navigation System
Abstract:  As cameras and inertial sensors are becoming ubiquitous in mobile devices and robots, it holds great potential to design visual-inertial navigation systems (VINS) for efficient versatile 3D motion tracking which utilize any (multiple) available cameras and inertial measurement units (IMUs) and are resilient to sensor failures or measurement depletion. To this end, rather than the standard VINS paradigm using a minimal sensing suite of a single camera and IMU, in this paper we design a real-time consistent multi-IMU multi-camera (MIMC)-VINS estimator that is able to seamlessly fuse multi-modal information from an arbitrary number of uncalibrated cameras and IMUs. Within an efficient multi-state constraint Kalman filter (MSCKF) framework, the proposed MIMC-VINS algorithm optimally fuses asynchronous measurements from all sensors, while providing smooth, uninterrupted, and accurate 3D motion tracking even if some sensors fail. The key idea of the proposed MIMC-VINS is to perform high-order on-manifold state interpolation to efficiently process all available visual measurements without increasing the computational burden due to estimating additional sensors' poses at asynchronous imaging times. In order to fuse the information from multiple IMUs, we propagate a joint system consisting of all IMU states while enforcing rigid-body constraints between the IMUs during the filter update stage. Lastly, we estimate online both spatiotemporal extrinsic and visual intrinsic parameters to make our system robust to errors in prior sensor calibration. The proposed system is extensively validated in both Monte-Carlo simulations and real-world experiments. 

Title: Efficient Autonomy Validation in Simulation with Adaptive Stress Testing
Abstract:  During the development of autonomous systems such as driverless cars, it is important to characterize the scenarios that are most likely to result in failure. Adaptive Stress Testing (AST) provides a way to search for the most-likely failure scenario as a Markov decision process (MDP). Our previous work used a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) solver to identify likely failure scenarios. However, the solver's use of a feed-forward neural network with a discretized space of possible initial conditions poses two major problems. First, the system is not treated as a black box, in that it requires analyzing the internal state of the system, which leads to considerable implementation complexities. Second, in order to simulate realistic settings, a new instance of the solver needs to be run for each initial condition. Running a new solver for each initial condition not only significantly increases the computational complexity, but also disregards the underlying relationship between similar initial conditions. We provide a solution to both problems by employing a recurrent neural network that takes a set of initial conditions from a continuous space as input. This approach enables robust and efficient detection of failures because the solution generalizes across the entire space of initial conditions. By simulating an instance where an autonomous car drives while a pedestrian is crossing a road, we demonstrate the solver is now capable of finding solutions for problems that would have previously been intractable. 

Title: Early Fusion for Goal Directed Robotic Vision
Abstract:  Building perceptual systems for robotics which perform well under tight computational budgets requires novel architectures which rethink the traditional computer vision pipeline. Modern vision architectures require the agent to build a summary representation of the entire scene, even if most of the input is irrelevant to the agent's current goal. In this work, we flip this paradigm, by introducing EarlyFusion vision models that condition on a goal to build custom representations for downstream tasks. We show that these goal specific representations can be learned more quickly, are substantially more parameter efficient, and more robust than existing attention mechanisms in our domain. We demonstrate the effectiveness of these methods on a simulated robotic item retrieval problem that is trained in a fully end-to-end manner via imitation learning. 

Title: Exploration of Indoor Environments Predicting the Layout of Partially Observed Rooms
Abstract:  We consider exploration tasks in which an autonomous mobile robot incrementally builds maps of initially unknown indoor environments. In such tasks, the robot makes a sequence of decisions on where to move next that, usually, are based on knowledge about the observed parts of the environment. In this paper, we present an approach that exploits a prediction of the geometric structure of the unknown parts of an environment to improve exploration performance. In particular, we leverage an existing method that reconstructs the layout of an environment starting from a partial grid map and that predicts the shape of partially observed rooms on the basis of geometric features representing the regularities of the indoor environment. Then, we originally employ the predicted layout to estimate the amount of new area the robot would observe from candidate locations in order to inform the selection of the next best location and to early stop the exploration when no further relevant area is expected to be discovered. Experimental activities show that our approach is able to effectively predict the layout of partially observed rooms and to use such knowledge to speed up the exploration. 

Title: Kinematic Single Vehicle Trajectory Prediction Baselines and Applications with the NGSIM Dataset
Abstract:  In the recent vehicle trajectory prediction literature, the most common baselines are briefly introduced without the necessary information to reproduce it. In this article we produce reproducible vehicle prediction results from simple models. For that purpose, the process is explicit, and the code is available. Those baseline models are a constant velocity model and a single-vehicle prediction model. They are applied on the NGSIM US-101 and I-80 datasets using only relative positions. Thus, the process can be reproduced with any database containing tracking of vehicle positions. The evaluation reports Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), Final Displacement Error (FDE), Negative Log-Likelihood (NLL), and Miss Rate (MR). The NLL estimation needs a careful definition because several formulations that differ from the mathematical definition are used in other works. This article is meant to be used along with the published code to establish baselines for further work. An extension is proposed to replace the constant velocity assumption with a learned model using a recurrent neural network. This brings good improvements in accuracy and uncertainty estimation and opens possibilities for both complex and interpretable models. 

Title: Monocular Vision based Crowdsourced 3D Traffic Sign Positioning with Unknown Camera Intrinsics and Distortion Coefficients
Abstract:  Autonomous vehicles and driver assistance systems utilize maps of 3D semantic landmarks for improved decision making. However, scaling the mapping process as well as regularly updating such maps come with a huge cost. Crowdsourced mapping of these landmarks such as traffic sign positions provides an appealing alternative. The state-of-the-art approaches to crowdsourced mapping use ground truth camera parameters, which may not always be known or may change over time. In this work, we demonstrate an approach to computing 3D traffic sign positions without knowing the camera focal lengths, principal point, and distortion coefficients a priori. We validate our proposed approach on a public dataset of traffic signs in KITTI. Using only a monocular color camera and GPS, we achieve an average single journey relative and absolute positioning accuracy of 0.26 m and 1.38 m, respectively. 

Title: Online Semantic Exploration of Indoor Maps
Abstract:  In this paper we propose a method to extract an abstracted floor plan from typical grid maps using Bayesian reasoning. The result of this procedure is a probabilistic generative model of the environment defined over abstract concepts. It is well suited for higher-level reasoning and communication purposes. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach through real-world experiments. 

Title: Learning Objectness from Sonar Images for Class-Independent Object Detection
Abstract:  Detecting novel objects without class information is not trivial, as it is difficult to generalize from a small training set. This is an interesting problem for underwater robotics, as modeling marine objects is inherently more difficult in sonar images, and training data might not be available apriori. Detection proposals algorithms can be used for this purpose but usually requires a large amount of output bounding boxes. In this paper we propose the use of a fully convolutional neural network that regresses an objectness value directly from a Forward-Looking sonar image. By ranking objectness, we can produce high recall (96 %) with only 100 proposals per image. In comparison, EdgeBoxes requires 5000 proposals to achieve a slightly better recall of 97 %, while Selective Search requires 2000 proposals to achieve 95 % recall. We also show that our method outperforms a template matching baseline by a considerable margin, and is able to generalize to completely new objects. We expect that this kind of technique can be used in the field to find lost objects under the sea. 

Title: Non-Central Catadioptric Cameras Pose Estimation using 3D Lines
Abstract:  In this article we purpose a novel method for planar pose estimation of mobile robots. This method is based on an analytic solution (which we derived) for the projection of 3D straight lines, onto the mirror of Non-Central Catadioptric Cameras (NCCS). The resulting solution is rewritten as a function of the rotation and translation parameters, which is then used as an error function for a set of mirror points. Those should be the result of the projection of a set of points incident with the respective 3D lines. The camera's pose is given by minimizing the error function, with the associated constraints. The method is validated by experiments both with synthetic and real data. The latter was collected from a mobile robot equipped with a NCCS. 

Title: Reset-Free Guided Policy Search: Efficient Deep Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Initial States
Abstract:  Autonomous learning of robotic skills can allow general-purpose robots to learn wide behavioral repertoires without requiring extensive manual engineering. However, robotic skill learning methods typically make one of several trade-offs to enable practical real-world learning, such as requiring manually designed policy or value function representations, initialization from human-provided demonstrations, instrumentation of the training environment, or extremely long training times. In this paper, we propose a new reinforcement learning algorithm for learning manipulation skills that can train general-purpose neural network policies with minimal human engineering, while still allowing for fast, efficient learning in stochastic environments. Our approach builds on the guided policy search (GPS) algorithm, which transforms the reinforcement learning problem into supervised learning from a computational teacher (without human demonstrations). In contrast to prior GPS methods, which require a consistent set of initial states to which the system must be reset after each episode, our approach can handle randomized initial states, allowing it to be used in environments where deterministic resets are impossible. We compare our method to existing policy search techniques in simulation, showing that it can train high-dimensional neural network policies with the same sample efficiency as prior GPS methods, and present real-world results on a PR2 robotic manipulator. 

Title: Augmented Reality for Human-Swarm Interaction in a Swarm-Robotic Chemistry Simulation
Abstract:  We present a method to register individual members of a robotic swarm in an augmented reality display while showing relevant information about swarm dynamics to the user that would be otherwise hidden. Individual swarm members and clusters of the same group are identified by their color, and by blinking at a specific time interval that is distinct from the time interval at which their neighbors blink. We show that this problem is an instance of the graph coloring problem, which can be solved in a distributed manner in O(log(n)) time. We demonstrate our approach using a swarm chemistry simulation in which robots simulate individual atoms that form molecules following the rules of chemistry. Augmented reality is then used to display information about the internal state of individual swarm members as well as their topological relationship, corresponding to molecular bonds. 

Title: A Survey of Deep Learning Techniques for Mobile Robot Applications
Abstract:  Advancements in deep learning over the years have attracted research into how deep artificial neural networks can be used in robotic systems. This research survey will present a summarization of the current research with a specific focus on the gains and obstacles for deep learning to be applied to mobile robotics. 

Title: MaMiC: Macro and Micro Curriculum for Robotic Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Shaping in humans and animals has been shown to be a powerful tool for learning complex tasks as compared to learning in a randomized fashion. This makes the problem less complex and enables one to solve the easier sub task at hand first. Generating a curriculum for such guided learning involves subjecting the agent to easier goals first, and then gradually increasing their difficulty. This paper takes a similar direction and proposes a dual curriculum scheme for solving robotic manipulation tasks with sparse rewards, called MaMiC. It includes a macro curriculum scheme which divides the task into multiple sub-tasks followed by a micro curriculum scheme which enables the agent to learn between such discovered sub-tasks. We show how combining macro and micro curriculum strategies help in overcoming major exploratory constraints considered in robot manipulation tasks without having to engineer any complex rewards. We also illustrate the meaning of the individual curricula and how they can be used independently based on the task. The performance of such a dual curriculum scheme is analyzed on the Fetch environments. 

Title: Between Sense and Sensibility: Declarative narrativisation of mental models as a basis and benchmark for visuo-spatial cognition and computation focussed collaborative cognitive systems
Abstract:  What lies between `\emph{sensing}' and `\emph{sensibility}'? In other words, what kind of cognitive processes mediate sensing capability, and the formation of sensible impressions ---e.g., abstractions, analogies, hypotheses and theory formation, beliefs and their revision, argument formation--- in domain-specific problem solving, or in regular activities of everyday living, working and simply going around in the environment? How can knowledge and reasoning about such capabilities, as exhibited by humans in particular problem contexts, be used as a model and benchmark for the development of collaborative cognitive (interaction) systems concerned with human assistance, assurance, and empowerment? We pose these questions in the context of a range of assistive technologies concerned with \emph{visuo-spatial perception and cognition} tasks encompassing aspects such as commonsense, creativity, and the application of specialist domain knowledge and problem-solving thought processes. Assistive technologies being considered include: (a) human activity interpretation; (b) high-level cognitive rovotics; (c) people-centred creative design in domains such as architecture & digital media creation, and (d) qualitative analyses geographic information systems. Computational narratives not only provide a rich cognitive basis, but they also serve as a benchmark of functional performance in our development of computational cognitive assistance systems. We posit that computational narrativisation pertaining to space, actions, and change provides a useful model of \emph{visual} and \emph{spatio-temporal thinking} within a wide-range of problem-solving tasks and application areas where collaborative cognitive systems could serve an assistive and empowering function. 

Title: Dynamic Task Weighting Methods for Multi-task Networks in Autonomous Driving Systems
Abstract:  Deep multi-task networks are of particular interest for autonomous driving systems. They can potentially strike an excellent trade-off between predictive performance, hardware constraints and efficient use of information from multiple types of annotations and modalities. However, training such models is non-trivial and requires balancing learning over all tasks as their respective losses display different scales, ranges and dynamics across training. Multiple task weighting methods that adjust the losses in an adaptive way have been proposed recently on different datasets and combinations of tasks, making it difficult to compare them. In this work, we review and systematically evaluate nine task weighting strategies on common grounds on three automotive datasets (KITTI, Cityscapes and WoodScape). We then propose a novel method combining evolutionary meta-learning and task-based selective backpropagation, for computing task weights leading to reliable network training. Our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods by a significant margin on a two-task application. 

Title: Air Learning: An AI Research Platform for Algorithm-Hardware Benchmarking of Autonomous Aerial Robots
Abstract:  We introduce Air Learning, an AI research platform for benchmarking algorithm-hardware performance and energy efficiency trade-offs. We focus in particular on deep reinforcement learning (RL) interactions in autonomous unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Equipped with a random environment generator, AirLearning exposes a UAV to a diverse set of challenging scenarios. Users can specify a task, train different RL policies and evaluate their performance and energy efficiency on a variety of hardware platforms. To show how Air Learning can be used, we seed it with Deep Q Networks (DQN) and Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) to solve a point-to-point obstacle avoidance task in three different environments, generated using our configurable environment generator. We train the two algorithms using curriculum learning and non-curriculum-learning. Air Learning assesses the trained policies' performance, under a variety of quality-of-flight (QoF) metrics, such as the energy consumed, endurance and the average trajectory length, on resource-constrained embedded platforms like a Ras-Pi. We find that the trajectories on an embedded Ras-Pi are vastly different from those predicted on a high-end desktop system, resulting in up to 79.43% longer trajectories in one of the environments. To understand the source of such differences, we use Air Learning to artificially degrade desktop performance to mimic what happens on a low-end embedded system. QoF metrics with hardware-in-the-loop characterize those differences and expose how the choice of onboard compute affects the aerial robot's performance. We also conduct reliability studies to demonstrate how Air Learning can help understand how sensor failures affect the learned policies. All put together, Air Learning enables a broad class of RL studies on UAVs. More information and code for Air Learning can be found here: http://bit.ly/2JNAVb6. 

Title: Towards Deep Robot Learning with Optimizer applicable to Non-stationary Problems
Abstract:  This paper proposes a new optimizer for deep learning, named d-AmsGrad. In the real-world data, noise and outliers cannot be excluded from dataset to be used for learning robot skills. This problem is especially striking for robots that learn by collecting data in real time, which cannot be sorted manually. Several noise-robust optimizers have therefore been developed to resolve this problem, and one of them, named AmsGrad, which is a variant of Adam optimizer, has a proof of its convergence. However, in practice, it does not improve learning performance in robotics scenarios. This reason is hypothesized that most of robot learning problems are non-stationary, but AmsGrad assumes the maximum second momentum during learning to be stationarily given. In order to adapt to the non-stationary problems, an improved version, which slowly decays the maximum second momentum, is proposed. The proposed optimizer has the same capability of reaching the global optimum as baselines, and its performance outperformed that of the baselines in robotics problems. 

Title: Fast, Robust, Continuous Monocular Egomotion Computation
Abstract:  We propose robust methods for estimating camera egomotion in noisy, real-world monocular image sequences in the general case of unknown observer rotation and translation with two views and a small baseline. This is a difficult problem because of the nonconvex cost function of the perspective camera motion equation and because of non-Gaussian noise arising from noisy optical flow estimates and scene non-rigidity. To address this problem, we introduce the expected residual likelihood method (ERL), which estimates confidence weights for noisy optical flow data using likelihood distributions of the residuals of the flow field under a range of counterfactual model parameters. We show that ERL is effective at identifying outliers and recovering appropriate confidence weights in many settings. We compare ERL to a novel formulation of the perspective camera motion equation using a lifted kernel, a recently proposed optimization framework for joint parameter and confidence weight estimation with good empirical properties. We incorporate these strategies into a motion estimation pipeline that avoids falling into local minima. We find that ERL outperforms the lifted kernel method and baseline monocular egomotion estimation strategies on the challenging KITTI dataset, while adding almost no runtime cost over baseline egomotion methods. 

Title: LiDAR Sensor modeling and Data augmentation with GANs for Autonomous driving
Abstract:  In the autonomous driving domain, data collection and annotation from real vehicles are expensive and sometimes unsafe. Simulators are often used for data augmentation, which requires realistic sensor models that are hard to formulate and model in closed forms. Instead, sensors models can be learned from real data. The main challenge is the absence of paired data set, which makes traditional supervised learning techniques not suitable. In this work, we formulate the problem as image translation from unpaired data and employ CycleGANs to solve the sensor modeling problem for LiDAR, to produce realistic LiDAR from simulated LiDAR (sim2real). Further, we generate high-resolution, realistic LiDAR from lower resolution one (real2real). The LiDAR 3D point cloud is processed in Bird-eye View and Polar 2D representations. The experimental results show a high potential of the proposed approach. 

Title: GPO: Global Plane Optimization for Fast and Accurate Monocular SLAM Initialization
Abstract:  Initialization is essential to monocular Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) problems. This paper focuses on a novel initialization method for monocular SLAM based on planar features. The algorithm starts by homography estimation in a sliding window. It then proceeds to a global plane optimization (GPO) to obtain camera poses and the plane normal. 3D points can be recovered using planar constraints without triangulation. The proposed method fully exploits the plane information from multiple frames and avoids the ambiguities in homography decomposition. We validate our algorithm on the collected chessboard dataset against baseline implementations and present extensive analysis. Experimental results show that our method outperforms the fine-tuned baselines in both accuracy and real-time. 

Title: Autonomous and cooperative design of the monitor positions for a team of UAVs to maximize the quantity and quality of detected objects
Abstract:  This paper tackles the problem of positioning a swarm of UAVs inside a completely unknown terrain, having as objective to maximize the overall situational awareness. The situational awareness is expressed by the number and quality of unique objects of interest, inside the UAVs' fields of view. YOLOv3 and a system to identify duplicate objects of interest were employed to assign a single score to each UAVs' configuration. Then, a novel navigation algorithm, capable of optimizing the previously defined score, without taking into consideration the dynamics of either UAVs or environment, is proposed. A cornerstone of the proposed approach is that it shares the same convergence characteristics as the block coordinate descent (BCD) family of approaches. The effectiveness and performance of the proposed navigation scheme were evaluated utilizing a series of experiments inside the AirSim simulator. The experimental evaluation indicates that the proposed navigation algorithm was able to consistently navigate the swarm of UAVs to "strategic" monitoring positions and also adapt to the different number of swarm sizes. Source code is available at https://github.com/dimikout3/ConvCAOAirSim. 

Title: Adaptive Performance Assessment For Drivers Through Behavioral Advantage
Abstract:  The potential positive impact of autonomous driving and driver assistance technolo- gies have been a major impetus over the last decade. On the flip side, it has been a challenging problem to analyze the performance of human drivers or autonomous driving agents quantitatively. In this work, we propose a generic method that compares the performance of drivers or autonomous driving agents even if the environmental conditions are different, by using the driver behavioral advantage instead of absolute metrics, which efficiently removes the environmental factors. A concrete application of the method is also presented, where the performance of more than 100 truck drivers was evaluated and ranked in terms of fuel efficiency, covering more than 90,000 trips spanning an average of 300 miles in a variety of driving conditions and environments. 

Title: SGD for robot motion? The effectiveness of stochastic optimization on a new benchmark for biped locomotion tasks
Abstract:  Trajectory optimization and posture generation are hard problems in robot locomotion, which can be non-convex and have multiple local optima. Progress on these problems is further hindered by a lack of open benchmarks, since comparisons of different solutions are difficult to make. In this paper we introduce a new benchmark for trajectory optimization and posture generation of legged robots, using a pre-defined scenario, robot and constraints, as well as evaluation criteria. We evaluate state-of-the-art trajectory optimization algorithms based on sequential quadratic programming (SQP) on the benchmark, as well as new stochastic and incremental optimization methods borrowed from the large-scale machine learning literature. Interestingly we show that some of these stochastic and incremental methods, which are based on stochastic gradient descent (SGD), achieve higher success rates than SQP on tough initializations. Inspired by this observation we also propose a new incremental variant of SQP which updates only a random subset of the costs and constraints at each iteration. The algorithm is the best performing in both success rate and convergence speed, improving over SQP by up to 30% in both criteria. The benchmark's resources and a solution evaluation script are made openly available. 

Title: A Framework for learning multi-agent dynamic formation strategy in real-time applications
Abstract:  Formation strategy is one of the most important parts of many multi-agent systems with many applications in real world problems. In this paper, a framework for learning this task in a limited domain (restricted environment) is proposed. In this framework, agents learn either directly by observing an expert behavior or indirectly by observing other agents or objects behavior. First, a group of algorithms for learning formation strategy based on limited features will be presented. Due to distributed and complex nature of many multi-agent systems, it is impossible to include all features directly in the learning process; thus, a modular scheme is proposed in order to reduce the number of features. In this method, some important features have indirect influence in learning instead of directly involving them as input features. This framework has the ability to dynamically assign a group of positions to a group of agents to improve system performance. In addition, it can change the formation strategy when the context changes. Finally, this framework is able to automatically produce many complex and flexible formation strategy algorithms without directly involving an expert to present and implement such complex algorithms. 

Title: Disp R-CNN: Stereo 3D Object Detection via Shape Prior Guided Instance Disparity Estimation
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a novel system named Disp R-CNN for 3D object detection from stereo images. Many recent works solve this problem by first recovering a point cloud with disparity estimation and then apply a 3D detector. The disparity map is computed for the entire image, which is costly and fails to leverage category-specific prior. In contrast, we design an instance disparity estimation network (iDispNet) that predicts disparity only for pixels on objects of interest and learns a category-specific shape prior for more accurate disparity estimation. To address the challenge from scarcity of disparity annotation in training, we propose to use a statistical shape model to generate dense disparity pseudo-ground-truth without the need of LiDAR point clouds, which makes our system more widely applicable. Experiments on the KITTI dataset show that, even when LiDAR ground-truth is not available at training time, Disp R-CNN achieves competitive performance and outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods by 20% in terms of average precision. 

Title: Real-Time Visual Localisation in a Tagged Environment
Abstract:  In a robotised warehouse a major issue is the safety of human operators in case of intervention in the work area of the robots. The current solution is to shut down every robot but it causes a loss of productivity, especially for large robotised warehouses. In order to avoid this loss we need to ensure the operator's security during his/her intervention in the warehouse without powering off the robots. The human operator needs to be localised in the warehouse and the trajectories of the robots have to be modified so that they do not interfere with the human. The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate a visual localisation method with visual elements that are already available in the current warehouse setup. 

Title: MBMF: Model-Based Priors for Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Reinforcement Learning is divided in two main paradigms: model-free and model-based. Each of these two paradigms has strengths and limitations, and has been successfully applied to real world domains that are appropriate to its corresponding strengths. In this paper, we present a new approach aimed at bridging the gap between these two paradigms. We aim to take the best of the two paradigms and combine them in an approach that is at the same time data-efficient and cost-savvy. We do so by learning a probabilistic dynamics model and leveraging it as a prior for the intertwined model-free optimization. As a result, our approach can exploit the generality and structure of the dynamics model, but is also capable of ignoring its inevitable inaccuracies, by directly incorporating the evidence provided by the direct observation of the cost. Preliminary results demonstrate that our approach outperforms purely model-based and model-free approaches, as well as the approach of simply switching from a model-based to a model-free setting. 

Title: Interpolated Policy Gradient: Merging On-Policy and Off-Policy Gradient Estimation for Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Off-policy model-free deep reinforcement learning methods using previously collected data can improve sample efficiency over on-policy policy gradient techniques. On the other hand, on-policy algorithms are often more stable and easier to use. This paper examines, both theoretically and empirically, approaches to merging on- and off-policy updates for deep reinforcement learning. Theoretical results show that off-policy updates with a value function estimator can be interpolated with on-policy policy gradient updates whilst still satisfying performance bounds. Our analysis uses control variate methods to produce a family of policy gradient algorithms, with several recently proposed algorithms being special cases of this family. We then provide an empirical comparison of these techniques with the remaining algorithmic details fixed, and show how different mixing of off-policy gradient estimates with on-policy samples contribute to improvements in empirical performance. The final algorithm provides a generalization and unification of existing deep policy gradient techniques, has theoretical guarantees on the bias introduced by off-policy updates, and improves on the state-of-the-art model-free deep RL methods on a number of OpenAI Gym continuous control benchmarks. 

Title: TossingBot: Learning to Throw Arbitrary Objects with Residual Physics
Abstract:  We investigate whether a robot arm can learn to pick and throw arbitrary objects into selected boxes quickly and accurately. Throwing has the potential to increase the physical reachability and picking speed of a robot arm. However, precisely throwing arbitrary objects in unstructured settings presents many challenges: from acquiring reliable pre-throw conditions (e.g. initial pose of object in manipulator) to handling varying object-centric properties (e.g. mass distribution, friction, shape) and dynamics (e.g. aerodynamics). In this work, we propose an end-to-end formulation that jointly learns to infer control parameters for grasping and throwing motion primitives from visual observations (images of arbitrary objects in a bin) through trial and error. Within this formulation, we investigate the synergies between grasping and throwing (i.e., learning grasps that enable more accurate throws) and between simulation and deep learning (i.e., using deep networks to predict residuals on top of control parameters predicted by a physics simulator). The resulting system, TossingBot, is able to grasp and throw arbitrary objects into boxes located outside its maximum reach range at 500+ mean picks per hour (600+ grasps per hour with 85% throwing accuracy); and generalizes to new objects and target locations. Videos are available at https://tossingbot.cs.princeton.edu 

Title: Using Simulation and Domain Adaptation to Improve Efficiency of Deep Robotic Grasping
Abstract:  Instrumenting and collecting annotated visual grasping datasets to train modern machine learning algorithms can be extremely time-consuming and expensive. An appealing alternative is to use off-the-shelf simulators to render synthetic data for which ground-truth annotations are generated automatically. Unfortunately, models trained purely on simulated data often fail to generalize to the real world. We study how randomized simulated environments and domain adaptation methods can be extended to train a grasping system to grasp novel objects from raw monocular RGB images. We extensively evaluate our approaches with a total of more than 25,000 physical test grasps, studying a range of simulation conditions and domain adaptation methods, including a novel extension of pixel-level domain adaptation that we term the GraspGAN. We show that, by using synthetic data and domain adaptation, we are able to reduce the number of real-world samples needed to achieve a given level of performance by up to 50 times, using only randomly generated simulated objects. We also show that by using only unlabeled real-world data and our GraspGAN methodology, we obtain real-world grasping performance without any real-world labels that is similar to that achieved with 939,777 labeled real-world samples. 

Title: The utility of tactile force to autonomous learning of in-hand manipulation is task-dependent
Abstract:  Tactile sensors provide information that can be used to learn and execute manipulation tasks. Different tasks, however, might require different levels of sensory information; which in turn likely affect learning rates and performance. This paper evaluates the role of tactile information on autonomous learning of manipulation with a simulated 3-finger tendon-driven hand. We compare the ability of the same learning algorithm (Proximal Policy Optimization, PPO) to learn two manipulation tasks (rolling a ball about the horizontal axis with and without rotational stiffness) with three levels of tactile sensing: no sensing, 1D normal force, and 3D force vector. Surprisingly, and contrary to recent work on manipulation, adding 1D force-sensing did not always improve learning rates compared to no sensing---likely due to whether or not normal force is relevant to the task. Nonetheless, even though 3D force-sensing increases the dimensionality of the sensory input---which would in general hamper algorithm convergence---it resulted in faster learning rates and better performance. We conclude that, in general, sensory input is useful to learning only when it is relevant to the task---as is the case of 3D force-sensing for in-hand manipulation against gravity. Moreover, the utility of 3D force-sensing can even offset the added computational cost of learning with higher-dimensional sensory input. 

Title: BayesSim: adaptive domain randomization via probabilistic inference for robotics simulators
Abstract:  We introduce BayesSim, a framework for robotics simulations allowing a full Bayesian treatment for the parameters of the simulator. As simulators become more sophisticated and able to represent the dynamics more accurately, fundamental problems in robotics such as motion planning and perception can be solved in simulation and solutions transferred to the physical robot. However, even the most complex simulator might still not be able to represent reality in all its details either due to inaccurate parametrization or simplistic assumptions in the dynamic models. BayesSim provides a principled framework to reason about the uncertainty of simulation parameters. Given a black box simulator (or generative model) that outputs trajectories of state and action pairs from unknown simulation parameters, followed by trajectories obtained with a physical robot, we develop a likelihood-free inference method that computes the posterior distribution of simulation parameters. This posterior can then be used in problems where Sim2Real is critical, for example in policy search. We compare the performance of BayesSim in obtaining accurate posteriors in a number of classical control and robotics problems. Results show that the posterior computed from BayesSim can be used for domain randomization outperforming alternative methods that randomize based on uniform priors. 

Title: Closed-loop deep learning: generating forward models with back-propagation
Abstract:  A reflex is a simple closed loop control approach which tries to minimise an error but fails to do so because it will always react too late. An adaptive algorithm can use this error to learn a forward model with the help of predictive cues. For example a driver learns to improve their steering by looking ahead to avoid steering in the last minute. In order to process complex cues such as the road ahead deep learning is a natural choice. However, this is usually only achieved indirectly by employing deep reinforcement learning having a discrete state space. Here, we show how this can be directly achieved by embedding deep learning into a closed loop system and preserving its continuous processing. We show specifically how error back-propagation can be achieved in z-space and in general how gradient based approaches can be analysed in such closed loop scenarios. The performance of this learning paradigm is demonstrated using a line-follower both in simulation and on a real robot that show very fast and continuous learning. 

Title: Learning Fuzzy Controllers in Mobile Robotics with Embedded Preprocessing
Abstract:  The automatic design of controllers for mobile robots usually requires two stages. In the first stage,sensorial data are preprocessed or transformed into high level and meaningful values of variables whichare usually defined from expert knowledge. In the second stage, a machine learning technique is applied toobtain a controller that maps these high level variables to the control commands that are actually sent tothe robot. This paper describes an algorithm that is able to embed the preprocessing stage into the learningstage in order to get controllers directly starting from sensorial raw data with no expert knowledgeinvolved. Due to the high dimensionality of the sensorial data, this approach uses Quantified Fuzzy Rules(QFRs), that are able to transform low-level input variables into high-level input variables, reducingthe dimensionality through summarization. The proposed learning algorithm, called Iterative QuantifiedFuzzy Rule Learning (IQFRL), is based on genetic programming. IQFRL is able to learn rules with differentstructures, and can manage linguistic variables with multiple granularities. The algorithm has been testedwith the implementation of the wall-following behavior both in several realistic simulated environmentswith different complexity and on a Pioneer 3-AT robot in two real environments. Results have beencompared with several well-known learning algorithms combined with different data preprocessingtechniques, showing that IQFRL exhibits a better and statistically significant performance. Moreover,three real world applications for which IQFRL plays a central role are also presented: path and objecttracking with static and moving obstacles avoidance. 

Title: Recurrent-OctoMap: Learning State-based Map Refinement for Long-Term Semantic Mapping with 3D-Lidar Data
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel semantic mapping approach, Recurrent-OctoMap, learned from long-term 3D Lidar data. Most existing semantic mapping approaches focus on improving semantic understanding of single frames, rather than 3D refinement of semantic maps (i.e. fusing semantic observations). The most widely-used approach for 3D semantic map refinement is a Bayesian update, which fuses the consecutive predictive probabilities following a Markov-Chain model. Instead, we propose a learning approach to fuse the semantic features, rather than simply fusing predictions from a classifier. In our approach, we represent and maintain our 3D map as an OctoMap, and model each cell as a recurrent neural network (RNN), to obtain a Recurrent-OctoMap. In this case, the semantic mapping process can be formulated as a sequence-to-sequence encoding-decoding problem. Moreover, in order to extend the duration of observations in our Recurrent-OctoMap, we developed a robust 3D localization and mapping system for successively mapping a dynamic environment using more than two weeks of data, and the system can be trained and deployed with arbitrary memory length. We validate our approach on the ETH long-term 3D Lidar dataset [1]. The experimental results show that our proposed approach outperforms the conventional "Bayesian update" approach. 

Title: Let me join you! Real-time F-formation recognition by a socially aware robot
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel architecture to detect social groups in real-time from a continuous image stream of an ego-vision camera. F-formation defines social orientations in space where two or more person tends to communicate in a social place. Thus, essentially, we detect F-formations in social gatherings such as meetings, discussions, etc. and predict the robot's approach angle if it wants to join the social group. Additionally, we also detect outliers, i.e., the persons who are not part of the group under consideration. Our proposed pipeline consists of -- a) a skeletal key points estimator (a total of 17) for the detected human in the scene, b) a learning model (using a feature vector based on the skeletal points) using CRF to detect groups of people and outlier person in a scene, and c) a separate learning model using a multi-class Support Vector Machine (SVM) to predict the exact F-formation of the group of people in the current scene and the angle of approach for the viewing robot. The system is evaluated using two data-sets. The results show that the group and outlier detection in a scene using our method establishes an accuracy of 91%. We have made rigorous comparisons of our systems with a state-of-the-art F-formation detection system and found that it outperforms the state-of-the-art by 29% for formation detection and 55% for combined detection of the formation and approach angle. 

Title: Brno Urban Dataset -- The New Data for Self-Driving Agents and Mapping Tasks
Abstract:  Autonomous driving is a dynamically growing field of research, where quality and amount of experimental data is critical. Although several rich datasets are available these days, the demands of researchers and technical possibilities are evolving. Through this paper, we bring a new dataset recorded in Brno, Czech Republic. It offers data from four WUXGA cameras, two 3D LiDARs, inertial measurement unit, infrared camera and especially differential RTK GNSS receiver with centimetre accuracy which, to the best knowledge of the authors, is not available from any other public dataset so far. In addition, all the data are precisely timestamped with sub-millisecond precision to allow wider range of applications. At the time of publishing of this paper, recordings of more than 350 km of rides in varying environment are shared at: https: //github.com/RoboticsBUT/Brno-Urban-Dataset. 

Title: Direct Monocular Odometry Using Points and Lines
Abstract:  Most visual odometry algorithm for a monocular camera focuses on points, either by feature matching, or direct alignment of pixel intensity, while ignoring a common but important geometry entity: edges. In this paper, we propose an odometry algorithm that combines points and edges to benefit from the advantages of both direct and feature based methods. It works better in texture-less environments and is also more robust to lighting changes and fast motion by increasing the convergence basin. We maintain a depth map for the keyframe then in the tracking part, the camera pose is recovered by minimizing both the photometric error and geometric error to the matched edge in a probabilistic framework. In the mapping part, edge is used to speed up and increase stereo matching accuracy. On various public datasets, our algorithm achieves better or comparable performance than state-of-the-art monocular odometry methods. In some challenging texture-less environments, our algorithm reduces the state estimation error over 50%. 

Title: Dynamic Objects Segmentation for Visual Localization in Urban Environments
Abstract:  Visual localization and mapping is a crucial capability to address many challenges in mobile robotics. It constitutes a robust, accurate and cost-effective approach for local and global pose estimation within prior maps. Yet, in highly dynamic environments, like crowded city streets, problems arise as major parts of the image can be covered by dynamic objects. Consequently, visual odometry pipelines often diverge and the localization systems malfunction as detected features are not consistent with the precomputed 3D model. In this work, we present an approach to automatically detect dynamic object instances to improve the robustness of vision-based localization and mapping in crowded environments. By training a convolutional neural network model with a combination of synthetic and real-world data, dynamic object instance masks are learned in a semi-supervised way. The real-world data can be collected with a standard camera and requires minimal further post-processing. Our experiments show that a wide range of dynamic objects can be reliably detected using the presented method. Promising performance is demonstrated on our own and also publicly available datasets, which also shows the generalization capabilities of this approach. 

Title: Planning with Goal-Conditioned Policies
Abstract:  Planning methods can solve temporally extended sequential decision making problems by composing simple behaviors. However, planning requires suitable abstractions for the states and transitions, which typically need to be designed by hand. In contrast, model-free reinforcement learning (RL) can acquire behaviors from low-level inputs directly, but often struggles with temporally extended tasks. Can we utilize reinforcement learning to automatically form the abstractions needed for planning, thus obtaining the best of both approaches? We show that goal-conditioned policies learned with RL can be incorporated into planning, so that a planner can focus on which states to reach, rather than how those states are reached. However, with complex state observations such as images, not all inputs represent valid states. We therefore also propose using a latent variable model to compactly represent the set of valid states for the planner, so that the policies provide an abstraction of actions, and the latent variable model provides an abstraction of states. We compare our method with planning-based and model-free methods and find that our method significantly outperforms prior work when evaluated on image-based robot navigation and manipulation tasks that require non-greedy, multi-staged behavior. 

Title: Fast, Compact and Highly Scalable Visual Place Recognition through Sequence-based Matching of Overloaded Representations
Abstract:  Visual place recognition algorithms trade off three key characteristics: their storage footprint, their computational requirements, and their resultant performance, often expressed in terms of recall rate. Significant prior work has investigated highly compact place representations, sub-linear computational scaling and sub-linear storage scaling techniques, but have always involved a significant compromise in one or more of these regards, and have only been demonstrated on relatively small datasets. In this paper we present a novel place recognition system which enables for the first time the combination of ultra-compact place representations, near sub-linear storage scaling and extremely lightweight compute requirements. Our approach exploits the inherently sequential nature of much spatial data in the robotics domain and inverts the typical target criteria, through intentionally coarse scalar quantization-based hashing that leads to more collisions but is resolved by sequence-based matching. For the first time, we show how effective place recognition rates can be achieved on a new very large 10 million place dataset, requiring only 8 bytes of storage per place and 37K unitary operations to achieve over 50% recall for matching a sequence of 100 frames, where a conventional state-of-the-art approach both consumes 1300 times more compute and fails catastrophically. We present analysis investigating the effectiveness of our hashing overload approach under varying sizes of quantized vector length, comparison of near miss matches with the actual match selections and characterise the effect of variance re-scaling of data on quantization. 

Title: Tactical Rewind: Self-Correction via Backtracking in Vision-and-Language Navigation
Abstract:  We present the Frontier Aware Search with backTracking (FAST) Navigator, a general framework for action decoding, that achieves state-of-the-art results on the Room-to-Room (R2R) Vision-and-Language navigation challenge of Anderson et. al. (2018). Given a natural language instruction and photo-realistic image views of a previously unseen environment, the agent was tasked with navigating from source to target location as quickly as possible. While all current approaches make local action decisions or score entire trajectories using beam search, ours balances local and global signals when exploring an unobserved environment. Importantly, this lets us act greedily but use global signals to backtrack when necessary. Applying FAST framework to existing state-of-the-art models achieved a 17% relative gain, an absolute 6% gain on Success rate weighted by Path Length (SPL). 

Title: Verifying Controllers Against Adversarial Examples with Bayesian Optimization
Abstract:  Recent successes in reinforcement learning have lead to the development of complex controllers for real-world robots. As these robots are deployed in safety-critical applications and interact with humans, it becomes critical to ensure safety in order to avoid causing harm. A first step in this direction is to test the controllers in simulation. To be able to do this, we need to capture what we mean by safety and then efficiently search the space of all behaviors to see if they are safe. In this paper, we present an active-testing framework based on Bayesian Optimization. We specify safety constraints using logic and exploit structure in the problem in order to test the system for adversarial counter examples that violate the safety specifications. These specifications are defined as complex boolean combinations of smooth functions on the trajectories and, unlike reward functions in reinforcement learning, are expressive and impose hard constraints on the system. In our framework, we exploit regularity assumptions on individual functions in form of a Gaussian Process (GP) prior. We combine these into a coherent optimization framework using problem structure. The resulting algorithm is able to provably verify complex safety specifications or alternatively find counter examples. Experimental results show that the proposed method is able to find adversarial examples quickly. 

Title: MoreFusion: Multi-object Reasoning for 6D Pose Estimation from Volumetric Fusion
Abstract:  Robots and other smart devices need efficient object-based scene representations from their on-board vision systems to reason about contact, physics and occlusion. Recognized precise object models will play an important role alongside non-parametric reconstructions of unrecognized structures. We present a system which can estimate the accurate poses of multiple known objects in contact and occlusion from real-time, embodied multi-view vision. Our approach makes 3D object pose proposals from single RGB-D views, accumulates pose estimates and non-parametric occupancy information from multiple views as the camera moves, and performs joint optimization to estimate consistent, non-intersecting poses for multiple objects in contact. We verify the accuracy and robustness of our approach experimentally on 2 object datasets: YCB-Video, and our own challenging Cluttered YCB-Video. We demonstrate a real-time robotics application where a robot arm precisely and orderly disassembles complicated piles of objects, using only on-board RGB-D vision. 

Title: Reasoning About Liquids via Closed-Loop Simulation
Abstract:  Simulators are powerful tools for reasoning about a robot's interactions with its environment. However, when simulations diverge from reality, that reasoning becomes less useful. In this paper, we show how to close the loop between liquid simulation and real-time perception. We use observations of liquids to correct errors when tracking the liquid's state in a simulator. Our results show that closed-loop simulation is an effective way to prevent large divergence between the simulated and real liquid states. As a direct consequence of this, our method can enable reasoning about liquids that would otherwise be infeasible due to large divergences, such as reasoning about occluded liquid. 

Title: A Data Driven Method of Optimizing Feedforward Compensator for Autonomous Vehicle
Abstract:  A reliable controller is critical and essential for the execution of safe and smooth maneuvers of an autonomous vehicle.The controller must be robust to external disturbances, such as road surface, weather, and wind conditions, and so on.It also needs to deal with the internal parametric variations of vehicle sub-systems, including power-train efficiency, measurement errors, time delay,so on.Moreover, as in most production vehicles, the low-control commands for the engine, brake, and steering systems are delivered through separate electronic control units.These aforementioned factors introduce opaque and ineffectiveness issues in controller performance.In this paper, we design a feed-forward compensate process via a data-driven method to model and further optimize the controller performance.We apply the principal component analysis to the extraction of most influential features.Subsequently,we adopt a time delay neural network and include the accuracy of the predicted error in a future time horizon.Utilizing the predicted error,we then design a feed-forward compensate process to improve the control performance.Finally,we demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed feed-forward compensate process in simulation scenarios. 

Title: BIM-assisted object recognition for the on-site autonomous robotic assembly of discrete structures
Abstract:  Robots-operating autonomous assembly applications in an unstructured environment require precise methods to locate the building components on site. However, the current available object detection systems are not well-optimised for construction applications, due to the tedious setups incorporated for referencing an object to a system and inability to cope with the elements imperfections. In this paper, we propose a flexible object pose estimation framework to enable robots to autonomously handle building components on-site with an error tolerance to build a specific design target without the need to sort or label them. We implemented an object recognition approach that uses the virtual representation model of all the objects found in a BIM model to autonomously search for the best-matched objects in a scene. The design layout is used to guide the robot to grasp and manipulate the found elements to build the desired structure. We verify our proposed framework by testing it in an automatic discrete wall assembly workflow. Although the precision is not as expected, we analyse the possible reasons that might cause this imprecision, which paves the path for future improvements. 

Title: Unsupervised Online Grounding of Natural Language during Human-Robot Interactions
Abstract:  Allowing humans to communicate through natural language with robots requires connections between words and percepts. The process of creating these connections is called symbol grounding and has been studied for nearly three decades. Although many studies have been conducted, not many considered grounding of synonyms and the employed algorithms either work only offline or in a supervised manner. In this paper, a cross-situational learning based grounding framework is proposed that allows grounding of words and phrases through corresponding percepts without human supervision and online, i.e. it does not require any explicit training phase, but instead updates the obtained mappings for every new encountered situation. The proposed framework is evaluated through an interaction experiment between a human tutor and a robot, and compared to an existing unsupervised grounding framework. The results show that the proposed framework is able to ground words through their corresponding percepts online and in an unsupervised manner, while outperforming the baseline framework. 

Title: 3D Human Pose Estimation in RGBD Images for Robotic Task Learning
Abstract:  We propose an approach to estimate 3D human pose in real world units from a single RGBD image and show that it exceeds performance of monocular 3D pose estimation approaches from color as well as pose estimation exclusively from depth. Our approach builds on robust human keypoint detectors for color images and incorporates depth for lifting into 3D. We combine the system with our learning from demonstration framework to instruct a service robot without the need of markers. Experiments in real world settings demonstrate that our approach enables a PR2 robot to imitate manipulation actions observed from a human teacher. 

Title: Network Offloading Policies for Cloud Robotics: a Learning-based Approach
Abstract:  Today's robotic systems are increasingly turning to computationally expensive models such as deep neural networks (DNNs) for tasks like localization, perception, planning, and object detection. However, resource-constrained robots, like low-power drones, often have insufficient on-board compute resources or power reserves to scalably run the most accurate, state-of-the art neural network compute models. Cloud robotics allows mobile robots the benefit of offloading compute to centralized servers if they are uncertain locally or want to run more accurate, compute-intensive models. However, cloud robotics comes with a key, often understated cost: communicating with the cloud over congested wireless networks may result in latency or loss of data. In fact, sending high data-rate video or LIDAR from multiple robots over congested networks can lead to prohibitive delay for real-time applications, which we measure experimentally. In this paper, we formulate a novel Robot Offloading Problem --- how and when should robots offload sensing tasks, especially if they are uncertain, to improve accuracy while minimizing the cost of cloud communication? We formulate offloading as a sequential decision making problem for robots, and propose a solution using deep reinforcement learning. In both simulations and hardware experiments using state-of-the art vision DNNs, our offloading strategy improves vision task performance by between 1.3-2.6x of benchmark offloading strategies, allowing robots the potential to significantly transcend their on-board sensing accuracy but with limited cost of cloud communication. 

Title: Autonomous Functional Locomotion in a Tendon-Driven Limb via Limited Experience
Abstract:  Robots will become ubiquitously useful only when they can use few attempts to teach themselves to perform different tasks, even with complex bodies and in dynamical environments. Vertebrates, in fact, successfully use trial-and-error to learn multiple tasks in spite of their intricate tendon-driven anatomies. Roboticists find such tendon-driven systems particularly hard to control because they are simultaneously nonlinear, under-determined (many tendon tensions combine to produce few net joint torques), and over-determined (few joint rotations define how many tendons need to be reeled-in/payed-out). We demonstrate---for the first time in simulation and in hardware---how a model-free approach allows few-shot autonomous learning to produce effective locomotion in a 3-tendon/2-joint tendon-driven leg. Initially, an artificial neural network fed by sparsely sampled data collected using motor babbling creates an inverse map from limb kinematics to motor activations, which is analogous to juvenile vertebrates playing during development. Thereafter, iterative reward-driven exploration of candidate motor activations simultaneously refines the inverse map and finds a functional locomotor limit-cycle autonomously. This biologically-inspired algorithm, which we call G2P (General to Particular), enables versatile adaptation of robots to changes in the target task, mechanics of their bodies, and environment. Moreover, this work empowers future studies of few-shot autonomous learning in biological systems, which is the foundation of their enviable functional versatility. 

Title: A Fully-Integrated Sensing and Control System for High-Accuracy Mobile Robotic Building Construction
Abstract:  We present a fully-integrated sensing and control system which enables mobile manipulator robots to execute building tasks with millimeter-scale accuracy on building construction sites. The approach leverages multi-modal sensing capabilities for state estimation, tight integration with digital building models, and integrated trajectory planning and whole-body motion control. A novel method for high-accuracy localization updates relative to the known building structure is proposed. The approach is implemented on a real platform and tested under realistic construction conditions. We show that the system can achieve sub-cm end-effector positioning accuracy during fully autonomous operation using solely on-board sensing. 

Title: Supervised Learning of the Next-Best-View for 3D Object Reconstruction
Abstract:  Motivated by the advances in 3D sensing technology and the spreading of low-cost robotic platforms, 3D object reconstruction has become a common task in many areas. Nevertheless, the selection of the optimal sensor pose that maximizes the reconstructed surface is a problem that remains open. It is known in the literature as the next-best-view planning problem. In this paper, we propose a novel next-best-view planning scheme based on supervised deep learning. The scheme contains an algorithm for automatic generation of datasets and an original three-dimensional convolutional neural network (3D-CNN) used to learn the next-best-view. Unlike previous work where the problem is addressed as a search, the trained 3D-CNN directly predicts the sensor pose. We present a comparison of the proposed network against a similar net, and we present several experiments of the reconstruction of unknown objects validating the effectiveness of the proposed scheme. 

Title: Enabling Robots to Communicate their Objectives
Abstract:  The overarching goal of this work is to efficiently enable end-users to correctly anticipate a robot's behavior in novel situations. Since a robot's behavior is often a direct result of its underlying objective function, our insight is that end-users need to have an accurate mental model of this objective function in order to understand and predict what the robot will do. While people naturally develop such a mental model over time through observing the robot act, this familiarization process may be lengthy. Our approach reduces this time by having the robot model how people infer objectives from observed behavior, and then it selects those behaviors that are maximally informative. The problem of computing a posterior over objectives from observed behavior is known as Inverse Reinforcement Learning (IRL), and has been applied to robots learning human objectives. We consider the problem where the roles of human and robot are swapped. Our main contribution is to recognize that unlike robots, humans will not be exact in their IRL inference. We thus introduce two factors to define candidate approximate-inference models for human learning in this setting, and analyze them in a user study in the autonomous driving domain. We show that certain approximate-inference models lead to the robot generating example behaviors that better enable users to anticipate what it will do in novel situations. Our results also suggest, however, that additional research is needed in modeling how humans extrapolate from examples of robot behavior. 

Title: Towards Optimally Decentralized Multi-Robot Collision Avoidance via Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Developing a safe and efficient collision avoidance policy for multiple robots is challenging in the decentralized scenarios where each robot generate its paths without observing other robots' states and intents. While other distributed multi-robot collision avoidance systems exist, they often require extracting agent-level features to plan a local collision-free action, which can be computationally prohibitive and not robust. More importantly, in practice the performance of these methods are much lower than their centralized counterparts. We present a decentralized sensor-level collision avoidance policy for multi-robot systems, which directly maps raw sensor measurements to an agent's steering commands in terms of movement velocity. As a first step toward reducing the performance gap between decentralized and centralized methods, we present a multi-scenario multi-stage training framework to find an optimal policy which is trained over a large number of robots on rich, complex environments simultaneously using a policy gradient based reinforcement learning algorithm. We validate the learned sensor-level collision avoidance policy in a variety of simulated scenarios with thorough performance evaluations and show that the final learned policy is able to find time efficient, collision-free paths for a large-scale robot system. We also demonstrate that the learned policy can be well generalized to new scenarios that do not appear in the entire training period, including navigating a heterogeneous group of robots and a large-scale scenario with 100 robots. Videos are available at https://sites.google.com/view/drlmaca 

Title: Radiation Search Operations using Scene Understanding with Autonomous UAV and UGV
Abstract:  Autonomously searching for hazardous radiation sources requires the ability of the aerial and ground systems to understand the scene they are scouting. In this paper, we present systems, algorithms, and experiments to perform radiation search using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) and unmanned ground vehicles (UGV) by employing semantic scene segmentation. The aerial data is used to identify radiological points of interest, generate an orthophoto along with a digital elevation model (DEM) of the scene, and perform semantic segmentation to assign a category (e.g. road, grass) to each pixel in the orthophoto. We perform semantic segmentation by training a model on a dataset of images we collected and annotated, using the model to perform inference on images of the test area unseen to the model, and then refining the results with the DEM to better reason about category predictions at each pixel. We then use all of these outputs to plan a path for a UGV carrying a LiDAR to map the environment and avoid obstacles not present during the flight, and a radiation detector to collect more precise radiation measurements from the ground. Results of the analysis for each scenario tested favorably. We also note that our approach is general and has the potential to work for a variety of different sensing tasks. 

Title: Towards Safe Autonomous Driving: Capture Uncertainty in the Deep Neural Network For Lidar 3D Vehicle Detection
Abstract:  To assure that an autonomous car is driving safely on public roads, its object detection module should not only work correctly, but show its prediction confidence as well. Previous object detectors driven by deep learning do not explicitly model uncertainties in the neural network. We tackle with this problem by presenting practical methods to capture uncertainties in a 3D vehicle detector for Lidar point clouds. The proposed probabilistic detector represents reliable epistemic uncertainty and aleatoric uncertainty in classification and localization tasks. Experimental results show that the epistemic uncertainty is related to the detection accuracy, whereas the aleatoric uncertainty is influenced by vehicle distance and occlusion. The results also show that we can improve the detection performance by 1%-5% by modeling the aleatoric uncertainty. 

Title: Real-Time Grasp Detection Using Convolutional Neural Networks
Abstract:  We present an accurate, real-time approach to robotic grasp detection based on convolutional neural networks. Our network performs single-stage regression to graspable bounding boxes without using standard sliding window or region proposal techniques. The model outperforms state-of-the-art approaches by 14 percentage points and runs at 13 frames per second on a GPU. Our network can simultaneously perform classification so that in a single step it recognizes the object and finds a good grasp rectangle. A modification to this model predicts multiple grasps per object by using a locally constrained prediction mechanism. The locally constrained model performs significantly better, especially on objects that can be grasped in a variety of ways. 

Title: The Effect of Color Space Selection on Detectability and Discriminability of Colored Objects
Abstract:  In this paper, we investigate the effect of color space selection on detectability and discriminability of colored objects under various conditions. 20 color spaces from the literature are evaluated on a large dataset of simulated and real images. We measure the suitability of color spaces from two different perspectives: detectability and discriminability of various color groups. Through experimental evaluation, we found that there is no single optimal color space suitable for all color groups. The color spaces have different levels of sensitivity to different color groups and they are useful depending on the color of the sought object. Overall, the best results were achieved in both simulated and real images using color spaces C1C2C3, UVW and XYZ. In addition, using a simulated environment, we show a practical application of color space selection in the context of top-down control in active visual search. The results indicate that on average color space C1C2C3 followed by HSI and XYZ achieve the best time in searching for objects of various colors. Here, the right choice of color space can improve time of search on average by 20%. As part of our contribution, we also introduce a large dataset of simulated 3D objects 

Title: Sample-efficient Deep Reinforcement Learning with Imaginary Rollouts for Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning has proven to be a great success in allowing agents to learn complex tasks. However, its application to actual robots can be prohibitively expensive. Furthermore, the unpredictability of human behavior in human-robot interaction tasks can hinder convergence to a good policy. In this paper, we present an architecture that allows agents to learn models of stochastic environments and use them to accelerate learning. We descirbe how an environment model can be learned online and used to generate synthetic transitions, as well as how an agent can leverage these synthetic data to accelerate learning. We validate our approach using an experiment in which a robotic arm has to complete a task composed of a series of actions based on human gestures. Results show that our approach leads to significantly faster learning, requiring much less interaction with the environment. Furthermore, we demonstrate how learned models can be used by a robot to produce optimal plans in real world applications. 

Title: Learning Reward Functions from Diverse Sources of Human Feedback: Optimally Integrating Demonstrations and Preferences
Abstract:  Reward functions are a common way to specify the objective of a robot. As designing reward functions can be extremely challenging, a more promising approach is to directly learn reward functions from human teachers. Importantly, humans provide data in a variety of forms: these include instructions (e.g., natural language), demonstrations, (e.g., kinesthetic guidance), and preferences (e.g., comparative rankings). Prior research has independently applied reward learning to each of these different data sources. However, there exist many domains where some of these information sources are not applicable or inefficient -- while multiple sources are complementary and expressive. Motivated by this general problem, we present a framework to integrate multiple sources of information, which are either passively or actively collected from human users. In particular, we present an algorithm that first utilizes user demonstrations to initialize a belief about the reward function, and then proactively probes the user with preference queries to zero-in on their true reward. This algorithm not only enables us combine multiple data sources, but it also informs the robot when it should leverage each type of information. Further, our approach accounts for the human's ability to provide data: yielding user-friendly preference queries which are also theoretically optimal. Our extensive simulated experiments and user studies on a Fetch mobile manipulator demonstrate the superiority and the usability of our integrated framework. 

Title: Tethered Aerial Visual Assistance
Abstract:  In this paper, an autonomous tethered Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is developed into a visual assistant in a marsupial co-robots team, collaborating with a tele-operated Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) for robot operations in unstructured or confined environments. These environments pose extreme challenges to the remote tele-operator due to the lack of sufficient situational awareness, mostly caused by the unstructuredness and confinement, stationary and limited field-of-view and lack of depth perception from the robot's onboard cameras. To overcome these problems, a secondary tele-operated robot is used in current practices, who acts as a visual assistant and provides external viewpoints to overcome the perceptual limitations of the primary robot's onboard sensors. However, a second tele-operated robot requires extra manpower and teamwork demand between primary and secondary operators. The manually chosen viewpoints tend to be subjective and sub-optimal. Considering these intricacies, we develop an autonomous tethered aerial visual assistant in place of the secondary tele-operated robot and operator, to reduce human robot ratio from 2:2 to 1:2. Using a fundamental viewpoint quality theory, a formal risk reasoning framework, and a newly developed tethered motion suite, our visual assistant is able to autonomously navigate to good-quality viewpoints in a risk-aware manner through unstructured or confined spaces with a tether. The developed marsupial co-robots team could improve tele-operation efficiency in nuclear operations, bomb squad, disaster robots, and other domains with novel tasks or highly occluded environments, by reducing manpower and teamwork demand, and achieving better visual assistance quality with trustworthy risk-aware motion. 

Title: Leveraging Uncertainties for Deep Multi-modal Object Detection in Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  This work presents a probabilistic deep neural network that combines LiDAR point clouds and RGB camera images for robust, accurate 3D object detection. We explicitly model uncertainties in the classification and regression tasks, and leverage uncertainties to train the fusion network via a sampling mechanism. We validate our method on three datasets with challenging real-world driving scenarios. Experimental results show that the predicted uncertainties reflect complex environmental uncertainty like difficulties of a human expert to label objects. The results also show that our method consistently improves the Average Precision by up to 7% compared to the baseline method. When sensors are temporally misaligned, the sampling method improves the Average Precision by up to 20%, showing its high robustness against noisy sensor inputs. 

Title: "Good Robot!": Efficient Reinforcement Learning for Multi-Step Visual Tasks with Sim to Real Transfer
Abstract:  Current Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithms struggle with long-horizon tasks where time can be wasted exploring dead ends and task progress may be easily reversed. We develop the SPOT framework, which explores within action safety zones, learns about unsafe regions without exploring them, and prioritizes experiences that reverse earlier progress to learn with remarkable efficiency. The SPOT framework successfully completes simulated trials of a variety of tasks, improving a baseline trial success rate from 13% to 100% when stacking 4 cubes, from 13% to 99% when creating rows of 4 cubes, and from 84% to 95% when clearing toys arranged in adversarial patterns. Efficiency with respect to actions per trial typically improves by 30% or more, while training takes just 1-20k actions, depending on the task. Furthermore, we demonstrate direct sim to real transfer. We are able to create real stacks in 100% of trials with 61% efficiency and real rows in 100% of trials with 59% efficiency by directly loading the simulation-trained model on the real robot with no additional real-world fine-tuning. To our knowledge, this is the first instance of reinforcement learning with successful sim to real transfer applied to long term multi-step tasks such as block-stacking and row-making with consideration of progress reversal. Code is available at https://github.com/jhu-lcsr/good_robot . 

Title: Cognitive Mapping and Planning for Visual Navigation
Abstract:  We introduce a neural architecture for navigation in novel environments. Our proposed architecture learns to map from first-person views and plans a sequence of actions towards goals in the environment. The Cognitive Mapper and Planner (CMP) is based on two key ideas: a) a unified joint architecture for mapping and planning, such that the mapping is driven by the needs of the task, and b) a spatial memory with the ability to plan given an incomplete set of observations about the world. CMP constructs a top-down belief map of the world and applies a differentiable neural net planner to produce the next action at each time step. The accumulated belief of the world enables the agent to track visited regions of the environment. We train and test CMP on navigation problems in simulation environments derived from scans of real world buildings. Our experiments demonstrate that CMP outperforms alternate learning-based architectures, as well as, classical mapping and path planning approaches in many cases. Furthermore, it naturally extends to semantically specified goals, such as 'going to a chair'. We also deploy CMP on physical robots in indoor environments, where it achieves reasonable performance, even though it is trained entirely in simulation. 

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning for Single-Shot Diagnosis and Adaptation in Damaged Robots
Abstract:  Robotics has proved to be an indispensable tool in many industrial as well as social applications, such as warehouse automation, manufacturing, disaster robotics, etc. In most of these scenarios, damage to the agent while accomplishing mission-critical tasks can result in failure. To enable robotic adaptation in such situations, the agent needs to adopt policies which are robust to a diverse set of damages and must do so with minimum computational complexity. We thus propose a damage aware control architecture which diagnoses the damage prior to gait selection while also incorporating domain randomization in the damage space for learning a robust policy. To implement damage awareness, we have used a Long Short Term Memory based supervised learning network which diagnoses the damage and predicts the type of damage. The main novelty of this approach is that only a single policy is trained to adapt against a wide variety of damages and the diagnosis is done in a single trial at the time of damage. 

Title: A Dataset for Improved RGBD-based Object Detection and Pose Estimation for Warehouse Pick-and-Place
Abstract:  An important logistics application of robotics involves manipulators that pick-and-place objects placed in warehouse shelves. A critical aspect of this task corre- sponds to detecting the pose of a known object in the shelf using visual data. Solving this problem can be assisted by the use of an RGB-D sensor, which also provides depth information beyond visual data. Nevertheless, it remains a challenging problem since multiple issues need to be addressed, such as low illumination inside shelves, clutter, texture-less and reflective objects as well as the limitations of depth sensors. This paper provides a new rich data set for advancing the state-of-the-art in RGBD- based 3D object pose estimation, which is focused on the challenges that arise when solving warehouse pick- and-place tasks. The publicly available data set includes thousands of images and corresponding ground truth data for the objects used during the first Amazon Picking Challenge at different poses and clutter conditions. Each image is accompanied with ground truth information to assist in the evaluation of algorithms for object detection. To show the utility of the data set, a recent algorithm for RGBD-based pose estimation is evaluated in this paper. Based on the measured performance of the algorithm on the data set, various modifications and improvements are applied to increase the accuracy of detection. These steps can be easily applied to a variety of different methodologies for object pose detection and improve performance in the domain of warehouse pick-and-place. 

Title: S4G: Amodal Single-view Single-Shot SE(3) Grasp Detection in Cluttered Scenes
Abstract:  Grasping is among the most fundamental and long-lasting problems in robotics study. This paper studies the problem of 6-DoF(degree of freedom) grasping by a parallel gripper in a cluttered scene captured using a commodity depth sensor from a single viewpoint. We address the problem in a learning-based framework. At the high level, we rely on a single-shot grasp proposal network, trained with synthetic data and tested in real-world scenarios. Our single-shot neural network architecture can predict amodal grasp proposal efficiently and effectively. Our training data synthesis pipeline can generate scenes of complex object configuration and leverage an innovative gripper contact model to create dense and high-quality grasp annotations. Experiments in synthetic and real environments have demonstrated that the proposed approach can outperform state-of-the-arts by a large margin. 

Title: Residual Policy Learning
Abstract:  We present Residual Policy Learning (RPL): a simple method for improving nondifferentiable policies using model-free deep reinforcement learning. RPL thrives in complex robotic manipulation tasks where good but imperfect controllers are available. In these tasks, reinforcement learning from scratch remains data-inefficient or intractable, but learning a residual on top of the initial controller can yield substantial improvements. We study RPL in six challenging MuJoCo tasks involving partial observability, sensor noise, model misspecification, and controller miscalibration. For initial controllers, we consider both hand-designed policies and model-predictive controllers with known or learned transition models. By combining learning with control algorithms, RPL can perform long-horizon, sparse-reward tasks for which reinforcement learning alone fails. Moreover, we find that RPL consistently and substantially improves on the initial controllers. We argue that RPL is a promising approach for combining the complementary strengths of deep reinforcement learning and robotic control, pushing the boundaries of what either can achieve independently. Video and code at https://k-r-allen.github.io/residual-policy-learning/. 

Title: AutoSOS: Towards Multi-UAV Systems Supporting Maritime Search and Rescue with Lightweight AI and Edge Computing
Abstract:  Rescue vessels are the main actors in maritime safety and rescue operations. At the same time, aerial drones bring a significant advantage into this scenario. This paper presents the research directions of the AutoSOS project, where we work in the development of an autonomous multi-robot search and rescue assistance platform capable of sensor fusion and object detection in embedded devices using novel lightweight AI models. The platform is meant to perform reconnaissance missions for initial assessment of the environment using novel adaptive deep learning algorithms that efficiently use the available sensors and computational resources on drones and rescue vessel. When drones find potential objects, they will send their sensor data to the vessel to verity the findings with increased accuracy. The actual rescue and treatment operation are left as the responsibility of the rescue personnel. The drones will autonomously reconfigure their spatial distribution to enable multi-hop communication, when a direct connection between a drone transmitting information and the vessel is unavailable. 

Title: Traffic Light Recognition Using Deep Learning and Prior Maps for Autonomous Cars
Abstract:  Autonomous terrestrial vehicles must be capable of perceiving traffic lights and recognizing their current states to share the streets with human drivers. Most of the time, human drivers can easily identify the relevant traffic lights. To deal with this issue, a common solution for autonomous cars is to integrate recognition with prior maps. However, additional solution is required for the detection and recognition of the traffic light. Deep learning techniques have showed great performance and power of generalization including traffic related problems. Motivated by the advances in deep learning, some recent works leveraged some state-of-the-art deep detectors to locate (and further recognize) traffic lights from 2D camera images. However, none of them combine the power of the deep learning-based detectors with prior maps to recognize the state of the relevant traffic lights. Based on that, this work proposes to integrate the power of deep learning-based detection with the prior maps used by our car platform IARA (acronym for Intelligent Autonomous Robotic Automobile) to recognize the relevant traffic lights of predefined routes. The process is divided in two phases: an offline phase for map construction and traffic lights annotation; and an online phase for traffic light recognition and identification of the relevant ones. The proposed system was evaluated on five test cases (routes) in the city of Vit\'oria, each case being composed of a video sequence and a prior map with the relevant traffic lights for the route. Results showed that the proposed technique is able to correctly identify the relevant traffic light along the trajectory. 

Title: A Configuration-Space Decomposition Scheme for Learning-based Collision Checking
Abstract:  Motion planning for robots of high degrees-of-freedom (DOFs) is an important problem in robotics with sampling-based methods in configuration space C as one popular solution. Recently, machine learning methods have been introduced into sampling-based motion planning methods, which train a classifier to distinguish collision free subspace from in-collision subspace in C. In this paper, we propose a novel configuration space decomposition method and show two nice properties resulted from this decomposition. Using these two properties, we build a composite classifier that works compatibly with previous machine learning methods by using them as the elementary classifiers. Experimental results are presented, showing that our composite classifier outperforms state-of-the-art single classifier methods by a large margin. A real application of motion planning in a multi-robot system in plant phenotyping using three UR5 robotic arms is also presented. 

Title: APPLD: Adaptive Planner Parameter Learning from Demonstration
Abstract:  Existing autonomous robot navigation systems allow robots to move from one point to another in a collision-free manner. However, when facing new environments, these systems generally require re-tuning by expert roboticists with a good understanding of the inner workings of the navigation system. In contrast, even users who are unversed in the details of robot navigation algorithms can generate desirable navigation behavior in new environments via teleoperation. In this paper, we introduce APPLD, Adaptive Planner Parameter Learning from Demonstration, that allows existing navigation systems to be successfully applied to new complex environments, given only a human teleoperated demonstration of desirable navigation. APPLD is verified on two robots running different navigation systems in different environments. Experimental results show that APPLD can outperform navigation systems with the default and expert-tuned parameters, and even the human demonstrator themselves. 

Title: Task-Relevant Adversarial Imitation Learning
Abstract:  We show that a critical problem in adversarial imitation from high-dimensional sensory data is the tendency of discriminator networks to distinguish agent and expert behaviour using task-irrelevant features beyond the control of the agent. We analyze this problem in detail and propose a solution as well as several baselines that outperform standard Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning (GAIL). Our proposed solution, Task-Relevant Adversarial Imitation Learning (TRAIL), uses a constrained optimization objective to overcome task-irrelevant features. Comprehensive experiments show that TRAIL can solve challenging manipulation tasks from pixels by imitating human operators, where other agents such as behaviour cloning (BC), standard GAIL, improved GAIL variants including our newly proposed baselines, and Deterministic Policy Gradients from Demonstrations (DPGfD) fail to find solutions, even when the other agents have access to task reward. 

Title: Query-Efficient Imitation Learning for End-to-End Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  One way to approach end-to-end autonomous driving is to learn a policy function that maps from a sensory input, such as an image frame from a front-facing camera, to a driving action, by imitating an expert driver, or a reference policy. This can be done by supervised learning, where a policy function is tuned to minimize the difference between the predicted and ground-truth actions. A policy function trained in this way however is known to suffer from unexpected behaviours due to the mismatch between the states reachable by the reference policy and trained policy functions. More advanced algorithms for imitation learning, such as DAgger, addresses this issue by iteratively collecting training examples from both reference and trained policies. These algorithms often requires a large number of queries to a reference policy, which is undesirable as the reference policy is often expensive. In this paper, we propose an extension of the DAgger, called SafeDAgger, that is query-efficient and more suitable for end-to-end autonomous driving. We evaluate the proposed SafeDAgger in a car racing simulator and show that it indeed requires less queries to a reference policy. We observe a significant speed up in convergence, which we conjecture to be due to the effect of automated curriculum learning. 

Title: Technical Report: Co-learning of geometry and semantics for online 3D mapping
Abstract:  This paper is a technical report about our submission for the ECCV 2018 3DRMS Workshop Challenge on Semantic 3D Reconstruction \cite{Tylecek2018rms}. In this paper, we address 3D semantic reconstruction for autonomous navigation using co-learning of depth map and semantic segmentation. The core of our pipeline is a deep multi-task neural network which tightly refines depth and also produces accurate semantic segmentation maps. Its inputs are an image and a raw depth map produced from a pair of images by standard stereo vision. The resulting semantic 3D point clouds are then merged in order to create a consistent 3D mesh, in turn used to produce dense semantic 3D reconstruction maps. The performances of each step of the proposed method are evaluated on the dataset and multiple tasks of the 3DRMS Challenge, and repeatedly surpass state-of-the-art approaches. 

Title: An Empirical Study of Person Re-Identification with Attributes
Abstract:  Person re-identification aims to identify a person from an image collection, given one image of that person as the query. There is, however, a plethora of real-life scenarios where we may not have a priori library of query images and therefore must rely on information from other modalities. In this paper, an attribute-based approach is proposed where the person of interest (POI) is described by a set of visual attributes, which are used to perform the search. We compare multiple algorithms and analyze how the quality of attributes impacts the performance. While prior work mostly relies on high precision attributes annotated by experts, we conduct a human-subject study and reveal that certain visual attributes could not be consistently described by human observers, making them less reliable in real applications. A key conclusion is that the performance achieved by non-expert attributes, instead of expert-annotated ones, is a more faithful indicator of the status quo of attribute-based approaches for person re-identification. 

Title: Depth map estimation methodology for detecting free-obstacle navigation areas
Abstract:  This paper presents a vision-based methodology which makes use of a stereo camera rig and a one dimension LiDAR to estimate free obstacle areas for quadrotor navigation. The presented approach fuses information provided by a depth map from a stereo camera rig, and the sensing distance of the 1D-LiDAR. Once the depth map is filtered with a Weighted Least Squares filter (WLS), the information is fused through a Kalman filter algorithm. To determine if there is a free space large enough for the quadrotor to pass through, our approach marks an area inside the disparity map by using the Kalman Filter output information. The whole process is implemented in an embedded computer Jetson TX2 and coded in the Robotic Operating System (ROS). Experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. 

Title: Bayesian Optimization in Variational Latent Spaces with Dynamic Compression
Abstract:  Data-efficiency is crucial for autonomous robots to adapt to new tasks and environments. In this work we focus on robotics problems with a budget of only 10-20 trials. This is a very challenging setting even for data-efficient approaches like Bayesian optimization (BO), especially when optimizing higher-dimensional controllers. Simulated trajectories can be used to construct informed kernels for BO. However, previous work employed supervised ways of extracting low-dimensional features for these. We propose a model and architecture for a sequential variational autoencoder that embeds the space of simulated trajectories into a lower-dimensional space of latent paths in an unsupervised way. We further compress the search space for BO by reducing exploration in parts of the state space that are undesirable, without requiring explicit constraints on controller parameters. We validate our approach with hardware experiments on a Daisy hexapod robot and an ABB Yumi manipulator. We also present simulation experiments with further comparisons to several baselines on Daisy and two manipulators. Our experiments indicate the proposed trajectory-based kernel with dynamic compression can offer ultra data-efficient optimization. 

Title: Learning Actions from Human Demonstration Video for Robotic Manipulation
Abstract:  Learning actions from human demonstration is an emerging trend for designing intelligent robotic systems, which can be referred as video to command. The performance of such approach highly relies on the quality of video captioning. However, the general video captioning methods focus more on the understanding of the full frame, lacking of consideration on the specific object of interests in robotic manipulations. We propose a novel deep model to learn actions from human demonstration video for robotic manipulation. It consists of two deep networks, grasp detection network (GNet) and video captioning network (CNet). GNet performs two functions: providing grasp solutions and extracting the local features for the object of interests in robotic manipulation. CNet outputs the captioning results by fusing the features of both full frames and local objects. Experimental results on UR5 robotic arm show that our method could produce more accurate command from video demonstration than state-of-the-art work, thereby leading to more robust grasping performance. 

Title: Cascaded Gaussian Processes for Data-efficient Robot Dynamics Learning
Abstract:  Motivated by the recursive Newton-Euler formulation, we propose a novel cascaded Gaussian process learning framework for the inverse dynamics of robot manipulators. This approach leads to a significant dimensionality reduction which in turn results in better learning and data efficiency. We explore two formulations for the cascading: the inward and outward, both along the manipulator chain topology. The learned modeling is tested in conjunction with the classical inverse dynamics model (semi-parametric) and on its own (non-parametric) in the context of feed-forward control of the arm. Experimental results are obtained with Jaco 2 six-DOF and SARCOS seven-DOF manipulators for randomly defined sinusoidal motions of the joints in order to evaluate the performance of cascading against the standard GP learning. In addition, experiments are conducted using Jaco 2 on a task emulating a pouring maneuver. Results indicate a consistent improvement in learning speed with the inward cascaded GP model and an overall improvement in data efficiency and generalization. 

Title: Real-Time Regression with Dividing Local Gaussian Processes
Abstract:  The increased demand for online prediction and the growing availability of large data sets drives the need for computationally efficient models. While exact Gaussian process regression shows various favorable theoretical properties (uncertainty estimate, unlimited expressive power), the poor scaling with respect to the training set size prohibits its application in big data regimes in real-time. Therefore, this paper proposes dividing local Gaussian processes, which are a novel, computationally efficient modeling approach based on Gaussian process regression. Due to an iterative, data-driven division of the input space, they achieve a sublinear computational complexity in the total number of training points in practice, while providing excellent predictive distributions. A numerical evaluation on real-world data sets shows their advantages over other state-of-the-art methods in terms of accuracy as well as prediction and update speed. 

Title: Time Hopping technique for faster reinforcement learning in simulations
Abstract:  This preprint has been withdrawn by the author for revision 

Title: Reverse Curriculum Generation for Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Many relevant tasks require an agent to reach a certain state, or to manipulate objects into a desired configuration. For example, we might want a robot to align and assemble a gear onto an axle or insert and turn a key in a lock. These goal-oriented tasks present a considerable challenge for reinforcement learning, since their natural reward function is sparse and prohibitive amounts of exploration are required to reach the goal and receive some learning signal. Past approaches tackle these problems by exploiting expert demonstrations or by manually designing a task-specific reward shaping function to guide the learning agent. Instead, we propose a method to learn these tasks without requiring any prior knowledge other than obtaining a single state in which the task is achieved. The robot is trained in reverse, gradually learning to reach the goal from a set of start states increasingly far from the goal. Our method automatically generates a curriculum of start states that adapts to the agent's performance, leading to efficient training on goal-oriented tasks. We demonstrate our approach on difficult simulated navigation and fine-grained manipulation problems, not solvable by state-of-the-art reinforcement learning methods. 

Title: Latent Hierarchical Model for Activity Recognition
Abstract:  We present a novel hierarchical model for human activity recognition. In contrast to approaches that successively recognize actions and activities, our approach jointly models actions and activities in a unified framework, and their labels are simultaneously predicted. The model is embedded with a latent layer that is able to capture a richer class of contextual information in both state-state and observation-state pairs. Although loops are present in the model, the model has an overall linear-chain structure, where the exact inference is tractable. Therefore, the model is very efficient in both inference and learning. The parameters of the graphical model are learned with a Structured Support Vector Machine (Structured-SVM). A data-driven approach is used to initialize the latent variables; therefore, no manual labeling for the latent states is required. The experimental results from using two benchmark datasets show that our model outperforms the state-of-the-art approach, and our model is computationally more efficient. 

Title: A Behavioral Approach to Visual Navigation with Graph Localization Networks
Abstract:  Inspired by research in psychology, we introduce a behavioral approach for visual navigation using topological maps. Our goal is to enable a robot to navigate from one location to another, relying only on its visual input and the topological map of the environment. We propose using graph neural networks for localizing the agent in the map, and decompose the action space into primitive behaviors implemented as convolutional or recurrent neural networks. Using the Gibson simulator, we verify that our approach outperforms relevant baselines and is able to navigate in both seen and unseen environments. 

Title: Learning Human Activities and Object Affordances from RGB-D Videos
Abstract:  Understanding human activities and object affordances are two very important skills, especially for personal robots which operate in human environments. In this work, we consider the problem of extracting a descriptive labeling of the sequence of sub-activities being performed by a human, and more importantly, of their interactions with the objects in the form of associated affordances. Given a RGB-D video, we jointly model the human activities and object affordances as a Markov random field where the nodes represent objects and sub-activities, and the edges represent the relationships between object affordances, their relations with sub-activities, and their evolution over time. We formulate the learning problem using a structural support vector machine (SSVM) approach, where labelings over various alternate temporal segmentations are considered as latent variables. We tested our method on a challenging dataset comprising 120 activity videos collected from 4 subjects, and obtained an accuracy of 79.4% for affordance, 63.4% for sub-activity and 75.0% for high-level activity labeling. We then demonstrate the use of such descriptive labeling in performing assistive tasks by a PR2 robot. 

Title: Scene Understanding for Autonomous Manipulation with Deep Learning
Abstract:  Over the past few years, deep learning techniques have achieved tremendous success in many visual understanding tasks such as object detection, image segmentation, and caption generation. Despite this thriving in computer vision and natural language processing, deep learning has not yet shown significant impact in robotics. Due to the gap between theory and application, there are many challenges when applying the results of deep learning to the real robotic systems. In this study, our long-term goal is to bridge the gap between computer vision and robotics by developing visual methods that can be used in real robots. In particular, this work tackles two fundamental visual problems for autonomous robotic manipulation: affordance detection and fine-grained action understanding. Theoretically, we propose different deep architectures to further improves the state of the art in each problem. Empirically, we show that the outcomes of our proposed methods can be applied in real robots and allow them to perform useful manipulation tasks. 

Title: Integration of 3D Object Recognition and Planning for Robotic Manipulation: A Preliminary Report
Abstract:  We investigate different approaches to integrating object recognition and planning in a tabletop manipulation domain with the set of objects used in the 2012 RoboCup@Work competition. Results of our preliminary experiments show that, with some approaches, close integration of perception and planning improves the quality of plans, as well as the computation times of feasible plans. 

Title: Learning to Explore using Active Neural SLAM
Abstract:  This work presents a modular and hierarchical approach to learn policies for exploring 3D environments, called `Active Neural SLAM'. Our approach leverages the strengths of both classical and learning-based methods, by using analytical path planners with learned SLAM module, and global and local policies. The use of learning provides flexibility with respect to input modalities (in the SLAM module), leverages structural regularities of the world (in global policies), and provides robustness to errors in state estimation (in local policies). Such use of learning within each module retains its benefits, while at the same time, hierarchical decomposition and modular training allow us to sidestep the high sample complexities associated with training end-to-end policies. Our experiments in visually and physically realistic simulated 3D environments demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach over past learning and geometry-based approaches. The proposed model can also be easily transferred to the PointGoal task and was the winning entry of the CVPR 2019 Habitat PointGoal Navigation Challenge. 

Title: Deep Imitation Learning for Complex Manipulation Tasks from Virtual Reality Teleoperation
Abstract:  Imitation learning is a powerful paradigm for robot skill acquisition. However, obtaining demonstrations suitable for learning a policy that maps from raw pixels to actions can be challenging. In this paper we describe how consumer-grade Virtual Reality headsets and hand tracking hardware can be used to naturally teleoperate robots to perform complex tasks. We also describe how imitation learning can learn deep neural network policies (mapping from pixels to actions) that can acquire the demonstrated skills. Our experiments showcase the effectiveness of our approach for learning visuomotor skills. 

Title: BI-MAML: Balanced Incremental Approach for Meta Learning
Abstract:  We present a novel Balanced Incremental Model Agnostic Meta Learning system (BI-MAML) for learning multiple tasks. Our method implements a meta-update rule to incrementally adapt its model to new tasks without forgetting old tasks. Such a capability is not possible in current state-of-the-art MAML approaches. These methods effectively adapt to new tasks, however, suffer from 'catastrophic forgetting' phenomena, in which new tasks that are streamed into the model degrade the performance of the model on previously learned tasks. Our system performs the meta-updates with only a few-shots and can successfully accomplish them. Our key idea for achieving this is the design of balanced learning strategy for the baseline model. The strategy sets the baseline model to perform equally well on various tasks and incorporates time efficiency. The balanced learning strategy enables BI-MAML to both outperform other state-of-the-art models in terms of classification accuracy for existing tasks and also accomplish efficient adaption to similar new tasks with less required shots. We evaluate BI-MAML by conducting comparisons on two common benchmark datasets with multiple number of image classification tasks. BI-MAML performance demonstrates advantages in both accuracy and efficiency. 

Title: Learning to Imagine Manipulation Goals for Robot Task Planning
Abstract:  Prospection is an important part of how humans come up with new task plans, but has not been explored in depth in robotics. Predicting multiple task-level is a challenging problem that involves capturing both task semantics and continuous variability over the state of the world. Ideally, we would combine the ability of machine learning to leverage big data for learning the semantics of a task, while using techniques from task planning to reliably generalize to new environment. In this work, we propose a method for learning a model encoding just such a representation for task planning. We learn a neural net that encodes the $k$ most likely outcomes from high level actions from a given world. Our approach creates comprehensible task plans that allow us to predict changes to the environment many time steps into the future. We demonstrate this approach via application to a stacking task in a cluttered environment, where the robot must select between different colored blocks while avoiding obstacles, in order to perform a task. We also show results on a simple navigation task. Our algorithm generates realistic image and pose predictions at multiple points in a given task. 

Title: Reinforcement Learning without Ground-Truth State
Abstract:  To perform robot manipulation tasks, a low-dimensional state of the environment typically needs to be estimated. However, designing a state estimator can sometimes be difficult, especially in environments with deformable objects. An alternative is to learn an end-to-end policy that maps directly from high-dimensional sensor inputs to actions. However, if this policy is trained with reinforcement learning, then without a state estimator, it is hard to specify a reward function based on high-dimensional observations. To meet this challenge, we propose a simple indicator reward function for goal-conditioned reinforcement learning: we only give a positive reward when the robot's observation exactly matches a target goal observation. We show that by relabeling the original goal with the achieved goal to obtain positive rewards (Andrychowicz et al., 2017), we can learn with the indicator reward function even in continuous state spaces. We propose two methods to further speed up convergence with indicator rewards: reward balancing and reward filtering. We show comparable performance between our method and an oracle which uses the ground-truth state for computing rewards. We show that our method can perform complex tasks in continuous state spaces such as rope manipulation from RGB-D images, without knowledge of the ground-truth state. 

Title: Towards Affordance Prediction with Vision via Task Oriented Grasp Quality Metrics
Abstract:  While many quality metrics exist to evaluate the quality of a grasp by itself, no clear quantification of the quality of a grasp relatively to the task the grasp is used for has been defined yet. In this paper we propose a framework to extend the concept of grasp quality metric to task-oriented grasping by defining affordance functions via basic grasp metrics for an open set of task affordances. We evaluate both the effectivity of the proposed task oriented metrics and their practical applicability by learning to infer them from vision. Indeed, we assess the validity of our novel framework both in the context of perfect information, i.e., known object model, and in the partial information context, i.e., inferring task oriented metrics from vision, underlining advantages and limitations of both situations. In the former, physical metrics of grasp hypotheses on an object are defined and computed in known object model simulation, in the latter deep models are trained to infer such properties from partial information in the form of synthesized range images. 

Title: Whole-Body Control of a Mobile Manipulator using End-to-End Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Mobile manipulation is usually achieved by sequentially executing base and manipulator movements. This simplification, however, leads to a loss in efficiency and in some cases a reduction of workspace size. Even though different methods have been proposed to solve Whole-Body Control (WBC) online, they are either limited by a kinematic model or do not allow for reactive, online obstacle avoidance. In order to overcome these drawbacks, in this work, we propose an end-to-end Reinforcement Learning (RL) approach to WBC. We compared our learned controller against a state-of-the-art sampling-based method in simulation and achieved faster overall mission times. In addition, we validated the learned policy on our mobile manipulator RoyalPanda in challenging narrow corridor environments. 

Title: MPC-Net: A First Principles Guided Policy Search
Abstract:  We present an Imitation Learning approach for the control of dynamical systems with a known model. Our policy search method is guided by solutions from MPC. Typical policy search methods of this kind minimize a distance metric between the guiding demonstrations and the learned policy. Our loss function, however, corresponds to the minimization of the control Hamiltonian, which derives from the principle of optimality. Therefore, our algorithm directly attempts to solve the optimality conditions with a parameterized class of control laws. Additionally, the proposed loss function explicitly encodes the constraints of the optimal control problem and we provide numerical evidence that its minimization achieves improved constraint satisfaction. We train a mixture-of-expert neural network architecture for controlling a quadrupedal robot and show that this policy structure is well suited for such multimodal systems. The learned policy can successfully stabilize different gaits on the real walking robot from less than 10 min of demonstration data. 

Title: End-to-end Learning for Inter-Vehicle Distance and Relative Velocity Estimation in ADAS with a Monocular Camera
Abstract:  Inter-vehicle distance and relative velocity estimations are two basic functions for any ADAS (Advanced driver-assistance systems). In this paper, we propose a monocular camera-based inter-vehicle distance and relative velocity estimation method based on end-to-end training of a deep neural network. The key novelty of our method is the integration of multiple visual clues provided by any two time-consecutive monocular frames, which include deep feature clue, scene geometry clue, as well as temporal optical flow clue. We also propose a vehicle-centric sampling mechanism to alleviate the effect of perspective distortion in the motion field (i.e. optical flow). We implement the method by a light-weight deep neural network. Extensive experiments are conducted which confirm the superior performance of our method over other state-of-the-art methods, in terms of estimation accuracy, computational speed, and memory footprint. 

Title: Evolving Graphical Planner: Contextual Global Planning for Vision-and-Language Navigation
Abstract:  The ability to perform effective planning is crucial for building an instruction-following agent. When navigating through a new environment, an agent is challenged with (1) connecting the natural language instructions with its progressively growing knowledge of the world; and (2) performing long-range planning and decision making in the form of effective exploration and error correction. Current methods are still limited on both fronts despite extensive efforts. In this paper, we introduce the Evolving Graphical Planner (EGP), a model that performs global planning for navigation based on raw sensory input. The model dynamically constructs a graphical representation, generalizes the action space to allow for more flexible decision making, and performs efficient planning on a proxy graph representation. We evaluate our model on a challenging Vision-and-Language Navigation (VLN) task with photorealistic images and achieve superior performance compared to previous navigation architectures. For instance, we achieve a 53% success rate on the test split of the Room-to-Room navigation task through pure imitation learning, outperforming previous navigation architectures by up to 5%. 

Title: Higher-Order Function Networks for Learning Composable 3D Object Representations
Abstract:  We present a new approach to 3D object representation where a neural network encodes the geometry of an object directly into the weights and biases of a second 'mapping' network. This mapping network can be used to reconstruct an object by applying its encoded transformation to points randomly sampled from a simple geometric space, such as the unit sphere. We study the effectiveness of our method through various experiments on subsets of the ShapeNet dataset. We find that the proposed approach can reconstruct encoded objects with accuracy equal to or exceeding state-of-the-art methods with orders of magnitude fewer parameters. Our smallest mapping network has only about 7000 parameters and shows reconstruction quality on par with state-of-the-art object decoder architectures with millions of parameters. Further experiments on feature mixing through the composition of learned functions show that the encoding captures a meaningful subspace of objects. 

Title: Laser2Vec: Similarity-based Retrieval for Robotic Perception Data
Abstract:  As mobile robot capabilities improve and deployment times increase, tools to analyze the growing volume of data are becoming necessary. Current state-of-the-art logging, playback, and exploration systems are insufficient for practitioners seeking to discover systemic points of failure in robotic systems. This paper presents a suite of algorithms for similarity-based queries of robotic perception data and implements a system for storing 2D LiDAR data from many deployments cheaply and evaluating top-k queries for complete or partial scans efficiently. We generate compressed representations of laser scans via a convolutional variational autoencoder and store them in a database, where a light-weight dense network for distance function approximation is run at query time. Our query evaluator leverages the local continuity of the embedding space to generate evaluation orders that, in expectation, dominate full linear scans of the database. The accuracy, robustness, scalability, and efficiency of our system is tested on real-world data gathered from dozens of deployments and synthetic data generated by corrupting real data. We find our system accurately and efficiently identifies similar scans across a number of episodes where the robot encountered the same location, or similar indoor structures or objects. 

Title: Listen, Attend, and Walk: Neural Mapping of Navigational Instructions to Action Sequences
Abstract:  We propose a neural sequence-to-sequence model for direction following, a task that is essential to realizing effective autonomous agents. Our alignment-based encoder-decoder model with long short-term memory recurrent neural networks (LSTM-RNN) translates natural language instructions to action sequences based upon a representation of the observable world state. We introduce a multi-level aligner that empowers our model to focus on sentence "regions" salient to the current world state by using multiple abstractions of the input sentence. In contrast to existing methods, our model uses no specialized linguistic resources (e.g., parsers) or task-specific annotations (e.g., seed lexicons). It is therefore generalizable, yet still achieves the best results reported to-date on a benchmark single-sentence dataset and competitive results for the limited-training multi-sentence setting. We analyze our model through a series of ablations that elucidate the contributions of the primary components of our model. 

Title: Learning to Predict Ego-Vehicle Poses for Sampling-Based Nonholonomic Motion Planning
Abstract:  Sampling-based motion planning is an effective tool to compute safe trajectories for automated vehicles in complex environments. However, a fast convergence to the optimal solution can only be ensured with the use of problem-specific sampling distributions. Due to the large variety of driving situations within the context of automated driving, it is very challenging to manually design such distributions. This paper introduces therefore a data-driven approach utilizing a deep convolutional neural network (CNN): Given the current driving situation, future ego-vehicle poses can be directly generated from the output of the CNN allowing to guide the motion planner efficiently towards the optimal solution. A benchmark highlights that the CNN predicts future vehicle poses with a higher accuracy compared to uniform sampling and a state-of-the-art A*-based approach. Combining this CNN-guided sampling with the motion planner Bidirectional RRT* reduces the computation time by up to an order of magnitude and yields a faster convergence to a lower cost as well as a success rate of 100 % in the tested scenarios. 

Title: A Deep Learning Approach for Multi-View Engagement Estimation of Children in a Child-Robot Joint Attention task
Abstract:  In this work we tackle the problem of child engagement estimation while children freely interact with a robot in their room. We propose a deep-based multi-view solution that takes advantage of recent developments in human pose detection. We extract the child's pose from different RGB-D cameras placed elegantly in the room, fuse the results and feed them to a deep neural network trained for classifying engagement levels. The deep network contains a recurrent layer, in order to exploit the rich temporal information contained in the pose data. The resulting method outperforms a number of baseline classifiers, and provides a promising tool for better automatic understanding of a child's attitude, interest and attention while cooperating with a robot. The goal is to integrate this model in next generation social robots as an attention monitoring tool during various CRI tasks both for Typically Developed (TD) children and children affected by autism (ASD). 

Title: Event-based Stereo Visual Odometry
Abstract:  Event-based cameras are bio-inspired vision sensors whose pixels work independently from each other and respond asynchronously to brightness changes, with microsecond resolution. Their advantages make it possible to tackle challenging scenarios in robotics, such as high-speed and high dynamic range scenes. We present a solution to the problem of visual odometry from the data acquired by a stereo event-based camera rig. Our system follows a parallel tracking-and-mapping approach, where novel solutions to each subproblem (3D reconstruction and camera pose estimation) are developed with two objectives in mind: being principled and efficient, for real-time operation with commodity hardware. To this end, we seek to maximize the spatio-temporal consistency of stereo event-based data while using a simple and efficient representation. Specifically, the mapping module builds a semi-dense 3D map of the scene by fusing depth estimates from multiple local viewpoints (obtained by spatio-temporal consistency) in a probabilistic fashion. The tracking module recovers the pose of the stereo rig by solving a registration problem that naturally arises due to the chosen map and event data representation. Experiments on publicly available datasets and on our own recordings demonstrate the versatility of the proposed method in natural scenes with general 6-DoF motion. The system successfully leverages the advantages of event-based cameras to perform visual odometry in challenging illumination conditions, such as low-light and high dynamic range, while running in real-time on a standard CPU. We release the software and dataset under an open source licence to foster research in the emerging topic of event-based SLAM. 

Title: MAT: Multi-Fingered Adaptive Tactile Grasping via Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Vision-based grasping systems typically adopt an open-loop execution of a planned grasp. This policy can fail due to many reasons, including ubiquitous calibration error. Recovery from a failed grasp is further complicated by visual occlusion, as the hand is usually occluding the vision sensor as it attempts another open-loop regrasp. This work presents MAT, a tactile closed-loop method capable of realizing grasps provided by a coarse initial positioning of the hand above an object. Our algorithm is a deep reinforcement learning (RL) policy optimized through the clipped surrogate objective within a maximum entropy RL framework to balance exploitation and exploration. The method utilizes tactile and proprioceptive information to act through both fine finger motions and larger regrasp movements to execute stable grasps. A novel curriculum of action motion magnitude makes learning more tractable and helps turn common failure cases into successes. Careful selection of features that exhibit small sim-to-real gaps enables this tactile grasping policy, trained purely in simulation, to transfer well to real world environments without the need for additional learning. Experimentally, this methodology improves over a vision-only grasp success rate substantially on a multi-fingered robot hand. When this methodology is used to realize grasps from coarse initial positions provided by a vision-only planner, the system is made dramatically more robust to calibration errors in the camera-robot transform. 

Title: RMM: A Recursive Mental Model for Dialog Navigation
Abstract:  Fluent communication requires understanding your audience. In the new collaborative task of Vision-and-Dialog Navigation, one agent must ask questions and follow instructive answers, while the other must provide those answers. We introduce the first true dialog navigation agents in the literature which generate full conversations, and introduce the Recursive Mental Model (RMM) to conduct these dialogs. RMM dramatically improves generated language questions and answers by recursively propagating reward signals to find the question expected to elicit the best answer, and the answer expected to elicit the best navigation. Additionally, we provide baselines for future work to build on when investigating the unique challenges of embodied visual agents that not only interpret instructions but also ask questions in natural language. 

Title: Development of a Robotic System for Automatic Wheel Removal and Fitting
Abstract:  This paper discusses the image processing and computer vision algorithms for real time detection and tracking of a sample wheel of a vehicle. During the manual tyre changing process, spinal and other muscular injuries are common and even more serious injuries have been recorded when occasionally, tyres fail (burst) during this process. It, therefore, follows that the introduction of a robotic system to take over this process would be a welcome development. This work discusses various useful applicable algorithms, Circular Hough Transform (CHT) as well as Continuously adaptive mean shift (Camshift) and provides some of the software solutions which can be deployed with a robotic mechanical arm to make the task of tyre changing faster, safer and more efficient. Image acquisition and software to accurately detect and classify specific objects of interest were implemented successfully, outcomes were discussed and areas for further studies suggested. 

Title: PCA-RECT: An Energy-efficient Object Detection Approach for Event Cameras
Abstract:  We present the first purely event-based, energy-efficient approach for object detection and categorization using an event camera. Compared to traditional frame-based cameras, choosing event cameras results in high temporal resolution (order of microseconds), low power consumption (few hundred mW) and wide dynamic range (120 dB) as attractive properties. However, event-based object recognition systems are far behind their frame-based counterparts in terms of accuracy. To this end, this paper presents an event-based feature extraction method devised by accumulating local activity across the image frame and then applying principal component analysis (PCA) to the normalized neighborhood region. Subsequently, we propose a backtracking-free k-d tree mechanism for efficient feature matching by taking advantage of the low-dimensionality of the feature representation. Additionally, the proposed k-d tree mechanism allows for feature selection to obtain a lower-dimensional dictionary representation when hardware resources are limited to implement dimensionality reduction. Consequently, the proposed system can be realized on a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) device leading to high performance over resource ratio. The proposed system is tested on real-world event-based datasets for object categorization, showing superior classification performance and relevance to state-of-the-art algorithms. Additionally, we verified the object detection method and real-time FPGA performance in lab settings under non-controlled illumination conditions with limited training data and ground truth annotations. 

Title: PoseGAN: A Pose-to-Image Translation Framework for Camera Localization
Abstract:  Camera localization is a fundamental requirement in robotics and computer vision. This paper introduces a pose-to-image translation framework to tackle the camera localization problem. We present PoseGANs, a conditional generative adversarial networks (cGANs) based framework for the implementation of pose-to-image translation. PoseGANs feature a number of innovations including a distance metric based conditional discriminator to conduct camera localization and a pose estimation technique for generated camera images as a stronger constraint to improve camera localization performance. Compared with learning-based regression methods such as PoseNet, PoseGANs can achieve better performance with model sizes that are 70% smaller. In addition, PoseGANs introduce the view synthesis technique to establish the correspondence between the 2D images and the scene, \textit{i.e.}, given a pose, PoseGANs are able to synthesize its corresponding camera images. Furthermore, we demonstrate that PoseGANs differ in principle from structure-based localization and learning-based regressions for camera localization, and show that PoseGANs exploit the geometric structures to accomplish the camera localization task, and is therefore more stable than and superior to learning-based regressions which rely on local texture features instead. In addition to camera localization and view synthesis, we also demonstrate that PoseGANs can be successfully used for other interesting applications such as moving object elimination and frame interpolation in video sequences. 

Title: UST: Unifying Spatio-Temporal Context for Trajectory Prediction in Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Trajectory prediction has always been a challenging problem for autonomous driving, since it needs to infer the latent intention from the behaviors and interactions from traffic participants. This problem is intrinsically hard, because each participant may behave differently under different environments and interactions. This key is to effectively model the interlaced influence from both spatial context and temporal context. Existing work usually encodes these two types of context separately, which would lead to inferior modeling of the scenarios. In this paper, we first propose a unified approach to treat time and space dimensions equally for modeling spatio-temporal context. The proposed module is simple and easy to implement within several lines of codes. In contrast to existing methods which heavily rely on recurrent neural network for temporal context and hand-crafted structure for spatial context, our method could automatically partition the spatio-temporal space to adapt the data. Lastly, we test our proposed framework on two recently proposed trajectory prediction dataset ApolloScape and Argoverse. We show that the proposed method substantially outperforms the previous state-of-the-art methods while maintaining its simplicity. These encouraging results further validate the superiority of our approach. 

Title: Towards Effective Human-AI Teams: The Case of Collaborative Packing
Abstract:  We focus on the problem of designing an artificial agent (AI), capable of assisting a human user to complete a task. Our goal is to guide human users towards optimal task performance while keeping their cognitive load as low as possible. Our insight is that doing so requires an understanding of human decision making for the task domain at hand. In this work, we consider the domain of collaborative packing, in which an AI agent provides placement recommendations to a human user. As a first step, we explore the mechanisms underlying human packing strategies. We conducted a user study in which 100 human participants completed a series of packing tasks in a virtual environment. We analyzed their packing strategies and discovered spatial and temporal patterns, such as that humans tend to place larger items at corners first. We expect that imbuing an artificial agent with an understanding of this spatiotemporal structure will enable improved assistance, which will be reflected in the task performance and the human perception of the AI. Ongoing work involves the development of a framework that incorporates the extracted insights to predict and manipulate human decision making towards an efficient trajectory of low cognitive load and high efficiency. A follow-up study will evaluate our framework against a set of baselines featuring alternative strategies of assistance. Our eventual goal is the deployment and evaluation of our framework on an autonomous robotic manipulator, actively assisting users on a packing task. 

Title: LiDAR Data Enrichment Using Deep Learning Based on High-Resolution Image: An Approach to Achieve High-Performance LiDAR SLAM Using Low-cost LiDAR
Abstract:  LiDAR-based SLAM algorithms are extensively studied to providing robust and accurate positioning for autonomous driving vehicles (ADV) in the past decades. Satisfactory performance can be obtained using high-grade 3D LiDAR with 64 channels, which can provide dense point clouds. Unfortunately, the high price significantly prevents its extensive commercialization in ADV. The cost-effective 3D LiDAR with 16 channels is a promising replacement. However, only limited and sparse point clouds can be provided by the 16 channels LiDAR, which cannot guarantee sufficient positioning accuracy for ADV in challenging dynamic environments. The high-resolution image from the low-cost camera can provide ample information about the surroundings. However, the explicit depth information is not available from the image. Inspired by the complementariness of 3D LiDAR and camera, this paper proposes to make use of the high-resolution images from a camera to enrich the raw 3D point clouds from the low-cost 16 channels LiDAR based on a state-of-the-art deep learning algorithm. An ERFNet is firstly employed to segment the image with the aid of the raw sparse 3D point clouds. Meanwhile, the sparse convolutional neural network is employed to predict the dense point clouds based on raw sparse 3D point clouds. Then, the predicted dense point clouds are fused with the segmentation outputs from ERFnet using a novel multi-layer convolutional neural network to refine the predicted 3D point clouds. Finally, the enriched point clouds are employed to perform LiDAR SLAM based on the state-of-the-art normal distribution transform (NDT). We tested our approach on the re-edited KITTI datasets: (1)the sparse 3D point clouds are significantly enriched with a mean square error of 1.1m MSE. (2)the map generated from the LiDAR SLAM is denser which includes more details without significant accuracy loss. 

Title: 3D Fully Convolutional Network for Vehicle Detection in Point Cloud
Abstract:  2D fully convolutional network has been recently successfully applied to object detection from images. In this paper, we extend the fully convolutional network based detection techniques to 3D and apply it to point cloud data. The proposed approach is verified on the task of vehicle detection from lidar point cloud for autonomous driving. Experiments on the KITTI dataset shows a significant performance improvement over the previous point cloud based detection approaches. 

Title: Multiple Human Tracking using Multi-Cues including Primitive Action Features
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a Multiple Human Tracking method using multi-cues including Primitive Action Features (MHT-PAF). MHT-PAF can perform the accurate human tracking in dynamic aerial videos captured by a drone. PAF employs a global context, rich information by multi-label actions, and a middle level feature. The accurate human tracking result using PAF helps multi-frame-based action recognition. In the experiments, we verified the effectiveness of the proposed method using the Okutama-Action dataset. Our code is available online. 

Title: Large-scale Kernel Methods and Applications to Lifelong Robot Learning
Abstract:  As the size and richness of available datasets grow larger, the opportunities for solving increasingly challenging problems with algorithms learning directly from data grow at the same pace. Consequently, the capability of learning algorithms to work with large amounts of data has become a crucial scientific and technological challenge for their practical applicability. Hence, it is no surprise that large-scale learning is currently drawing plenty of research effort in the machine learning research community. In this thesis, we focus on kernel methods, a theoretically sound and effective class of learning algorithms yielding nonparametric estimators. Kernel methods, in their classical formulations, are accurate and efficient on datasets of limited size, but do not scale up in a cost-effective manner. Recent research has shown that approximate learning algorithms, for instance random subsampling methods like Nystr\"om and random features, with time-memory-accuracy trade-off mechanisms are more scalable alternatives. In this thesis, we provide analyses of the generalization properties and computational requirements of several types of such approximation schemes. In particular, we expose the tight relationship between statistics and computations, with the goal of tailoring the accuracy of the learning process to the available computational resources. Our results are supported by experimental evidence on large-scale datasets and numerical simulations. We also study how large-scale learning can be applied to enable accurate, efficient, and reactive lifelong learning for robotics. In particular, we propose algorithms allowing robots to learn continuously from experience and adapt to changes in their operational environment. The proposed methods are validated on the iCub humanoid robot in addition to other benchmarks. 

Title: Weak in the NEES?: Auto-tuning Kalman Filters with Bayesian Optimization
Abstract:  Kalman filters are routinely used for many data fusion applications including navigation, tracking, and simultaneous localization and mapping problems. However, significant time and effort is frequently required to tune various Kalman filter model parameters, e.g. process noise covariance, pre-whitening filter models for non-white noise, etc. Conventional optimization techniques for tuning can get stuck in poor local minima and can be expensive to implement with real sensor data. To address these issues, a new "black box" Bayesian optimization strategy is developed for automatically tuning Kalman filters. In this approach, performance is characterized by one of two stochastic objective functions: normalized estimation error squared (NEES) when ground truth state models are available, or the normalized innovation error squared (NIS) when only sensor data is available. By intelligently sampling the parameter space to both learn and exploit a nonparametric Gaussian process surrogate function for the NEES/NIS costs, Bayesian optimization can efficiently identify multiple local minima and provide uncertainty quantification on its results. 

Title: Geometric Models of Rolling-Shutter Cameras
Abstract:  Cameras with rolling shutters are becoming more common as low-power, low-cost CMOS sensors are being used more frequently in cameras. The rolling shutter means that not all scanlines are exposed over the same time interval. The effects of a rolling shutter are noticeable when either the camera or objects in the scene are moving and can lead to systematic biases in projection estimation. We develop a general projection equation for a rolling shutter camera and show how it is affected by different types of camera motion. In the case of fronto-parallel motion, we show how that camera can be modeled as an X-slit camera. We also develop approximate projection equations for a non-zero angular velocity about the optical axis and approximate the projection equation for a constant velocity screw motion. We demonstrate how the rolling shutter effects the projective geometry of the camera and in turn the structure-from-motion. 

Title: SADA: Semantic Adversarial Diagnostic Attacks for Autonomous Applications
Abstract:  One major factor impeding more widespread adoption of deep neural networks (DNNs) is their lack of robustness, which is essential for safety-critical applications such as autonomous driving. This has motivated much recent work on adversarial attacks for DNNs, which mostly focus on pixel-level perturbations void of semantic meaning. In contrast, we present a general framework for adversarial attacks on trained agents, which covers semantic perturbations to the environment of the agent performing the task as well as pixel-level attacks. To do this, we re-frame the adversarial attack problem as learning a distribution of parameters that always fools the agent. In the semantic case, our proposed adversary (denoted as BBGAN) is trained to sample parameters that describe the environment with which the black-box agent interacts, such that the agent performs its dedicated task poorly in this environment. We apply BBGAN on three different tasks, primarily targeting aspects of autonomous navigation: object detection, self-driving, and autonomous UAV racing. On these tasks, BBGAN can generate failure cases that consistently fool a trained agent. 

Title: Conceptualization of Object Compositions Using Persistent Homology
Abstract:  A topological shape analysis is proposed and utilized to learn concepts that reflect shape commonalities. Our approach is two-fold: i) a spatial topology analysis of point cloud segment constellations within objects. Therein constellations are decomposed and described in an hierarchical manner - from single segments to segment groups until a single group reflects an entire object. ii) a topology analysis of the description space in which segment decompositions are exposed in. Inspired by Persistent Homology, hidden groups of shape commonalities are revealed from object segment decompositions. Experiments show that extracted persistent groups of commonalities can represent semantically meaningful shape concepts. We also show the generalization capability of the proposed approach considering samples of external datasets. 

Title: Joint Detection and Multi-Object Tracking with Graph Neural Networks
Abstract:  Object detection and data association are critical components in multi-object tracking (MOT) systems. Despite the fact that these two components are highly dependent on each other, one popular trend in MOT is to perform detection and data association as separate modules, processed in a cascaded order. Due to this cascaded process, the resulting MOT system can only perform forward inference and cannot back-propagate error through the entire pipeline and correct them. This leads to sub-optimal performance over the total pipeline. To address this issue, recent work jointly optimizes detection and data association and forms an integrated MOT approach, which has been shown to improve performance in both detection and tracking. In this work, we propose a new approach for joint MOT based on Graph Neural Networks (GNNs). The key idea of our approach is that GNNs can explicitly model complex interactions between multiple objects in both the spatial and temporal domains, which is essential for learning discriminative features for detection and data association. We also leverage the fact that motion features are useful for MOT when used together with appearance features. So our proposed joint MOT approach also incorporates appearance and motion features within our graph-based feature learning framework, leading to better feature learning for MOT. Through extensive experiments on the MOT challenge dataset, we show that our proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performance on both object detection and MOT. 

Title: Robust Gyroscope-Aided Camera Self-Calibration
Abstract:  Camera calibration for estimating the intrinsic parameters and lens distortion is a prerequisite for various monocular vision applications including feature tracking and video stabilization. This application paper proposes a model for estimating the parameters on the fly by fusing gyroscope and camera data, both readily available in modern day smartphones. The model is based on joint estimation of visual feature positions, camera parameters, and the camera pose, the movement of which is assumed to follow the movement predicted by the gyroscope. Our model assumes the camera movement to be free, but continuous and differentiable, and individual features are assumed to stay stationary. The estimation is performed online using an extended Kalman filter, and it is shown to outperform existing methods in robustness and insensitivity to initialization. We demonstrate the method using simulated data and empirical data from an iPad. 

Title: Explaining Fast Improvement in Online Policy Optimization
Abstract:  Online policy optimization (OPO) views policy optimization for sequential decision making as an online learning problem. In this framework, the algorithm designer defines a sequence of online loss functions such that the regret rate in online learning implies the policy convergence rate and the minimal loss witnessed by the policy class determines the policy performance bias. This reduction technique has been successfully applied to solving various policy optimization problems, including imitation learning, structured prediction, and system identification. Interestingly, the policy improvement speed observed in practice is usually much faster than existing theory suggests. In this work, we provide an explanation of this fast policy improvement phenomenon. Let $\epsilon$ denote the policy class bias and assume the online loss functions are convex, smooth, and non-negative. We prove that, after $N$ rounds of OPO with stochastic feedback, the policy converges in $\tilde{O}(1/N + \sqrt{\epsilon/N})$ in both expectation and high probability. In other words, we show that adopting a sufficiently expressive policy class in OPO has two benefits: both the convergence rate increases and the performance bias decreases, as the policy class becomes reasonably rich. This new theoretical insight is further verified in an online imitation learning experiment. 

Title: Real-time Fusion Network for RGB-D Semantic Segmentation Incorporating Unexpected Obstacle Detection for Road-driving Images
Abstract:  Semantic segmentation has made striking progress due to the success of deep convolutional neural networks. Considering the demands of autonomous driving, real-time semantic segmentation has become a research hotspot these years. However, few real-time RGB-D fusion semantic segmentation studies are carried out despite readily accessible depth information nowadays. In this paper, we propose a real-time fusion semantic segmentation network termed RFNet that effectively exploits complementary cross-modal information. Building on an efficient network architecture, RFNet is capable of running swiftly, which satisfies autonomous vehicles applications. Multi-dataset training is leveraged to incorporate unexpected small obstacle detection, enriching the recognizable classes required to face unforeseen hazards in the real world. A comprehensive set of experiments demonstrates the effectiveness of our framework. On Cityscapes, Our method outperforms previous state-of-the-art semantic segmenters, with excellent accuracy and 22Hz inference speed at the full 2048x1024 resolution, outperforming most existing RGB-D networks. 

Title: A Self-supervised Learning System for Object Detection using Physics Simulation and Multi-view Pose Estimation
Abstract:  Progress has been achieved recently in object detection given advancements in deep learning. Nevertheless, such tools typically require a large amount of training data and significant manual effort to label objects. This limits their applicability in robotics, where solutions must scale to a large number of objects and variety of conditions. This work proposes an autonomous process for training a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) for object detection and pose estimation in robotic setups. The focus is on detecting objects placed in cluttered, tight environments, such as a shelf with multiple objects. In particular, given access to 3D object models, several aspects of the environment are physically simulated. The models are placed in physically realistic poses with respect to their environment to generate a labeled synthetic dataset. To further improve object detection, the network self-trains over real images that are labeled using a robust multi-view pose estimation process. The proposed training process is evaluated on several existing datasets and on a dataset collected for this paper with a Motoman robotic arm. Results show that the proposed approach outperforms popular training processes relying on synthetic - but not physically realistic - data and manual annotation. The key contributions are the incorporation of physical reasoning in the synthetic data generation process and the automation of the annotation process over real images. 

Title: Explore and Explain: Self-supervised Navigation and Recounting
Abstract:  Embodied AI has been recently gaining attention as it aims to foster the development of autonomous and intelligent agents. In this paper, we devise a novel embodied setting in which an agent needs to explore a previously unknown environment while recounting what it sees during the path. In this context, the agent needs to navigate the environment driven by an exploration goal, select proper moments for description, and output natural language descriptions of relevant objects and scenes. Our model integrates a novel self-supervised exploration module with penalty, and a fully-attentive captioning model for explanation. Also, we investigate different policies for selecting proper moments for explanation, driven by information coming from both the environment and the navigation. Experiments are conducted on photorealistic environments from the Matterport3D dataset and investigate the navigation and explanation capabilities of the agent as well as the role of their interactions. 

Title: Are We Ready for Service Robots? The OpenLORIS-Scene Datasets for Lifelong SLAM
Abstract:  Service robots should be able to operate autonomously in dynamic and daily changing environments over an extended period of time. While Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) is one of the most fundamental problems for robotic autonomy, most existing SLAM works are evaluated with data sequences that are recorded in a short period of time. In real-world deployment, there can be out-of-sight scene changes caused by both natural factors and human activities. For example, in home scenarios, most objects may be movable, replaceable or deformable, and the visual features of the same place may be significantly different in some successive days. Such out-of-sight dynamics pose great challenges to the robustness of pose estimation, and hence a robot's long-term deployment and operation. To differentiate the forementioned problem from the conventional works which are usually evaluated in a static setting in a single run, the term \textit{lifelong SLAM} is used here to address SLAM problems in an ever-changing environment over a long period of time. To accelerate lifelong SLAM research, we release the OpenLORIS-Scene datasets. The data are collected in real-world indoor scenes, for multiple times in each place to include scene changes in real life. We also design benchmarking metrics for lifelong SLAM, with which the robustness and accuracy of pose estimation are evaluated separately. The datasets and benchmark are available online at https://lifelong-robotic-vision.github.io/dataset/scene. 

Title: Ubiquitous Distributed Deep Reinforcement Learning at the Edge: Analyzing Byzantine Agents in Discrete Action Spaces
Abstract:  The integration of edge computing in next-generation mobile networks is bringing low-latency and high-bandwidth ubiquitous connectivity to a myriad of cyber-physical systems. This will further boost the increasing intelligence that is being embedded at the edge in various types of autonomous systems, where collaborative machine learning has the potential to play a significant role. This paper discusses some of the challenges in multi-agent distributed deep reinforcement learning that can occur in the presence of byzantine or malfunctioning agents. As the simulation-to-reality gap gets bridged, the probability of malfunctions or errors must be taken into account. We show how wrong discrete actions can significantly affect the collaborative learning effort. In particular, we analyze the effect of having a fraction of agents that might perform the wrong action with a given probability. We study the ability of the system to converge towards a common working policy through the collaborative learning process based on the number of experiences from each of the agents to be aggregated for each policy update, together with the fraction of wrong actions from agents experiencing malfunctions. Our experiments are carried out in a simulation environment using the Atari testbed for the discrete action spaces, and advantage actor-critic (A2C) for the distributed multi-agent training. 

Title: Bold Hearts Team Description for RoboCup 2019 (Humanoid Kid Size League)
Abstract:  We participated in the RoboCup 2018 competition in Montreal with our newly developed BoldBot based on the Darwin-OP and mostly self-printed custom parts. This paper is about the lessons learnt from that competition and further developments for the RoboCup 2019 competition. Firstly, we briefly introduce the team along with an overview of past achievements. We then present a simple, standalone 2D simulator we use for simplifying the entry for new members with making basic RoboCup concepts quickly accessible. We describe our approach for semantic-segmentation for our vision used in the 2018 competition, which replaced the lookup-table (LUT) implementation we had before. We also discuss the extra structural support we plan to add to the printed parts of the BoldBot and our transition to ROS 2 as our new middleware. Lastly, we will present a collection of open-source contributions of our team. 

Title: OpenVSLAM: A Versatile Visual SLAM Framework
Abstract:  In this paper, we introduce OpenVSLAM, a visual SLAM framework with high usability and extensibility. Visual SLAM systems are essential for AR devices, autonomous control of robots and drones, etc. However, conventional open-source visual SLAM frameworks are not appropriately designed as libraries called from third-party programs. To overcome this situation, we have developed a novel visual SLAM framework. This software is designed to be easily used and extended. It incorporates several useful features and functions for research and development. OpenVSLAM is released at https://github.com/xdspacelab/openvslam under the 2-clause BSD license. 

Title: Detection and Tracking of Liquids with Fully Convolutional Networks
Abstract:  Recent advances in AI and robotics have claimed many incredible results with deep learning, yet no work to date has applied deep learning to the problem of liquid perception and reasoning. In this paper, we apply fully-convolutional deep neural networks to the tasks of detecting and tracking liquids. We evaluate three models: a single-frame network, multi-frame network, and a LSTM recurrent network. Our results show that the best liquid detection results are achieved when aggregating data over multiple frames, in contrast to standard image segmentation. They also show that the LSTM network outperforms the other two in both tasks. This suggests that LSTM-based neural networks have the potential to be a key component for enabling robots to handle liquids using robust, closed-loop controllers. 

Title: Developing a Purely Visual Based Obstacle Detection using Inverse Perspective Mapping
Abstract:  Our solution is implemented in and for the frame of Duckietown. The goal of Duckietown is to provide a relatively simple platform to explore, tackle and solve many problems linked to autonomous driving. "Duckietown" is simple in the basics, but an infinitely expandable environment. From controlling single driving Duckiebots until complete fleet management, every scenario is possible and can be put into practice. So far, none of the existing modules was capable of reliably detecting obstacles and reacting to them in real time. We faced the general problem of detecting obstacles given images from a monocular RGB camera mounted at the front of our Duckiebot and reacting to them properly without crashing or erroneously stopping the Duckiebot. Both, the detection as well as the reaction have to be implemented and have to run on a Raspberry Pi in real time. Due to the strong hardware limitations, we decided to not use any learning algorithms for the obstacle detection part. As it later transpired, a working "hard coded" software needs thorough analysis and understanding of the given problem. In layman's terms, we simply seek to make Duckietown a safer place. 

Title: A Variational Feature Encoding Method of 3D Object for Probabilistic Semantic SLAM
Abstract:  This paper presents a feature encoding method of complex 3D objects for high-level semantic features. Recent approaches to object recognition methods become important for semantic simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). However, there is a lack of consideration of the probabilistic observation model for 3D objects, as the shape of a 3D object basically follows a complex probability distribution. Furthermore, since the mobile robot equipped with a range sensor observes only a single view, much information of the object shape is discarded. These limitations are the major obstacles to semantic SLAM and view-independent loop closure using 3D object shapes as features. In order to enable the numerical analysis for the Bayesian inference, we approximate the true observation model of 3D objects to tractable distributions. Since the observation likelihood can be obtained from the generative model, we formulate the true generative model for 3D object with the Bayesian networks. To capture these complex distributions, we apply a variational auto-encoder. To analyze the approximated distributions and encoded features, we perform classification with maximum likelihood estimation and shape retrieval. 

Title: Multiple Futures Prediction
Abstract:  Temporal prediction is critical for making intelligent and robust decisions in complex dynamic environments. Motion prediction needs to model the inherently uncertain future which often contains multiple potential outcomes, due to multi-agent interactions and the latent goals of others. Towards these goals, we introduce a probabilistic framework that efficiently learns latent variables to jointly model the multi-step future motions of agents in a scene. Our framework is data-driven and learns semantically meaningful latent variables to represent the multimodal future, without requiring explicit labels. Using a dynamic attention-based state encoder, we learn to encode the past as well as the future interactions among agents, efficiently scaling to any number of agents. Finally, our model can be used for planning via computing a conditional probability density over the trajectories of other agents given a hypothetical rollout of the 'self' agent. We demonstrate our algorithms by predicting vehicle trajectories of both simulated and real data, demonstrating the state-of-the-art results on several vehicle trajectory datasets. 

Title: Unseen Object Instance Segmentation for Robotic Environments
Abstract:  In order to function in unstructured environments, robots need the ability to recognize unseen objects. We take a step in this direction by tackling the problem of segmenting unseen object instances in tabletop environments. However, the type of large-scale real-world dataset required for this task typically does not exist for most robotic settings, which motivates the use of synthetic data. Our proposed method, UOIS-Net, separately leverages synthetic RGB and synthetic depth for unseen object instance segmentation. UOIS-Net is comprised of two stages: first, it operates only on depth to produce object instance center votes in 2D or 3D and assembles them into rough initial masks. Secondly, these initial masks are refined using RGB. Surprisingly, our framework is able to learn from synthetic RGB-D data where the RGB is non-photorealistic. To train our method, we introduce a large-scale synthetic dataset of random objects on tabletops. We show that our method can produce sharp and accurate segmentation masks, outperforming state-of-the-art methods on unseen object instance segmentation. We also show that our method can segment unseen objects for robot grasping. 

Title: Temporal Segmentation of Surgical Sub-tasks through Deep Learning with Multiple Data Sources
Abstract:  Many tasks in robot-assisted surgeries (RAS) can be represented by finite-state machines (FSMs), where each state represents either an action (such as picking up a needle) or an observation (such as bleeding). A crucial step towards the automation of such surgical tasks is the temporal perception of the current surgical scene, which requires a real-time estimation of the states in the FSMs. The objective of this work is to estimate the current state of the surgical task based on the actions performed or events occurred as the task progresses. We propose Fusion-KVE, a unified surgical state estimation model that incorporates multiple data sources including the Kinematics, Vision, and system Events. Additionally, we examine the strengths and weaknesses of different state estimation models in segmenting states with different representative features or levels of granularity. We evaluate our model on the JHU-ISI Gesture and Skill Assessment Working Set (JIGSAWS), as well as a more complex dataset involving robotic intra-operative ultrasound (RIOUS) imaging, created using the da Vinci Xi surgical system. Our model achieves a superior frame-wise state estimation accuracy up to 89.4%, which improves the state-of-the-art surgical state estimation models in both JIGSAWS suturing dataset and our RIOUS dataset. 

Title: Solving Rubik's Cube with a Robot Hand
Abstract:  We demonstrate that models trained only in simulation can be used to solve a manipulation problem of unprecedented complexity on a real robot. This is made possible by two key components: a novel algorithm, which we call automatic domain randomization (ADR) and a robot platform built for machine learning. ADR automatically generates a distribution over randomized environments of ever-increasing difficulty. Control policies and vision state estimators trained with ADR exhibit vastly improved sim2real transfer. For control policies, memory-augmented models trained on an ADR-generated distribution of environments show clear signs of emergent meta-learning at test time. The combination of ADR with our custom robot platform allows us to solve a Rubik's cube with a humanoid robot hand, which involves both control and state estimation problems. Videos summarizing our results are available: https://openai.com/blog/solving-rubiks-cube/ 

Title: 2D Visual Place Recognition for Domestic Service Robots at Night
Abstract:  Domestic service robots such as lawn mowing and vacuum cleaning robots are the most numerous consumer robots in existence today. While early versions employed random exploration, recent systems fielded by most of the major manufacturers have utilized range-based and visual sensors and user-placed beacons to enable robots to map and localize. However, active range and visual sensing solutions have the disadvantages of being intrusive, expensive, or only providing a 1D scan of the environment, while the requirement for beacon placement imposes other practical limitations. In this paper we present a passive and potentially cheap vision-based solution to 2D localization at night that combines easily obtainable day-time maps with low resolution contrast-normalized image matching algorithms, image sequence-based matching in two-dimensions, place match interpolation and recent advances in conventional low light camera technology. In a range of experiments over a domestic lawn and in a lounge room, we demonstrate that the proposed approach enables 2D localization at night, and analyse the effect on performance of varying odometry noise levels, place match interpolation and sequence matching length. Finally we benchmark the new low light camera technology and show how it can enable robust place recognition even in an environment lit only by a moonless sky, raising the tantalizing possibility of being able to apply all conventional vision algorithms, even in the darkest of nights. 

Title: Multi-Task Reinforcement Learning with Soft Modularization
Abstract:  Multi-task learning is a very challenging problem in reinforcement learning. While training multiple tasks jointly allow the policies to share parameters across different tasks, the optimization problem becomes non-trivial: It is unclear what parameters in the network should be reused across tasks, and the gradients from different tasks may interfere with each other. Thus, instead of naively sharing parameters across tasks, we introduce an explicit modularization technique on policy representation to alleviate this optimization issue. Given a base policy network, we design a routing network which estimates different routing strategies to reconfigure the base network for each task. Instead of creating a concrete route for each task, our task-specific policy is represented by a soft combination of all possible routes. We name this approach soft modularization. We experiment with multiple robotics manipulation tasks in simulation and show our method improves sample efficiency and performance over baselines by a large margin. 

Title: UNO: Uncertainty-aware Noisy-Or Multimodal Fusion for Unanticipated Input Degradation
Abstract:  The fusion of multiple sensor modalities, especially through deep learning architectures, has been an active area of study. However, an under-explored aspect of such work is whether the methods can be robust to degradations across their input modalities, especially when they must generalize to degradations not seen during training. In this work, we propose an uncertainty-aware fusion scheme to effectively fuse inputs that might suffer from a range of known and unknown degradations. Specifically, we analyze a number of uncertainty measures, each of which captures a different aspect of uncertainty, and we propose a novel way to fuse degraded inputs by scaling modality-specific output softmax probabilities. We additionally propose a novel data-dependent spatial temperature scaling method to complement these existing uncertainty measures. Finally, we integrate the uncertainty-scaled output from each modality using a probabilistic noisy-or fusion method. In a photo-realistic simulation environment (AirSim), we show that our method achieves significantly better results on a semantic segmentation task, compared to state-of-art fusion architectures, on a range of degradations (e.g. fog, snow, frost, and various other types of noise), some of which are unknown during training. We specifically improve upon the state-of-art[1] by 28% in mean IoU on various degradations. [1] Abhinav Valada, Rohit Mohan, and Wolfram Burgard. Self-Supervised Model Adaptation for Multimodal Semantic Segmentation. In: arXiv e-prints, arXiv:1808.03833 (Aug. 2018), arXiv:1808.03833. arXiv: 1808.03833 [cs.CV]. 

Title: High-Dimensional Continuous Control Using Generalized Advantage Estimation
Abstract:  Policy gradient methods are an appealing approach in reinforcement learning because they directly optimize the cumulative reward and can straightforwardly be used with nonlinear function approximators such as neural networks. The two main challenges are the large number of samples typically required, and the difficulty of obtaining stable and steady improvement despite the nonstationarity of the incoming data. We address the first challenge by using value functions to substantially reduce the variance of policy gradient estimates at the cost of some bias, with an exponentially-weighted estimator of the advantage function that is analogous to TD(lambda). We address the second challenge by using trust region optimization procedure for both the policy and the value function, which are represented by neural networks. Our approach yields strong empirical results on highly challenging 3D locomotion tasks, learning running gaits for bipedal and quadrupedal simulated robots, and learning a policy for getting the biped to stand up from starting out lying on the ground. In contrast to a body of prior work that uses hand-crafted policy representations, our neural network policies map directly from raw kinematics to joint torques. Our algorithm is fully model-free, and the amount of simulated experience required for the learning tasks on 3D bipeds corresponds to 1-2 weeks of real time. 

Title: Multiple Style-Transfer in Real-Time
Abstract:  Style transfer aims to combine the content of one image with the artistic style of another. It was discovered that lower levels of convolutional networks captured style information, while higher levels captures content information. The original style transfer formulation used a weighted combination of VGG-16 layer activations to achieve this goal. Later, this was accomplished in real-time using a feed-forward network to learn the optimal combination of style and content features from the respective images. The first aim of our project was to introduce a framework for capturing the style from several images at once. We propose a method that extends the original real-time style transfer formulation by combining the features of several style images. This method successfully captures color information from the separate style images. The other aim of our project was to improve the temporal style continuity from frame to frame. Accordingly, we have experimented with the temporal stability of the output images and discussed the various available techniques that could be employed as alternatives. 

Title: Interactive Gibson: A Benchmark for Interactive Navigation in Cluttered Environments
Abstract:  We present Interactive Gibson, the first comprehensive benchmark for training and evaluating Interactive Navigation: robot navigation strategies where physical interaction with objects is allowed and even encouraged to accomplish a task. For example, the robot can move objects if needed in order to clear a path leading to the goal location. Our benchmark comprises two novel elements: 1) a new experimental setup, the Interactive Gibson Environment, which simulates high fidelity visuals of indoor scenes, and high fidelity physical dynamics of the robot and common objects found in these scenes; 2) a set of Interactive Navigation metrics which allows one to study the interplay between navigation and physical interaction. We present and evaluate multiple learning-based baselines in Interactive Gibson, and provide insights into regimes of navigation with different trade-offs between navigation path efficiency and disturbance of surrounding objects. We make our benchmark publicly available(https://sites.google.com/view/interactivegibsonenv) and encourage researchers from all disciplines in robotics (e.g. planning, learning, control) to propose, evaluate, and compare their Interactive Navigation solutions in Interactive Gibson. 

Title: Predictive Information Accelerates Learning in RL
Abstract:  The Predictive Information is the mutual information between the past and the future, I(X_past; X_future). We hypothesize that capturing the predictive information is useful in RL, since the ability to model what will happen next is necessary for success on many tasks. To test our hypothesis, we train Soft Actor-Critic (SAC) agents from pixels with an auxiliary task that learns a compressed representation of the predictive information of the RL environment dynamics using a contrastive version of the Conditional Entropy Bottleneck (CEB) objective. We refer to these as Predictive Information SAC (PI-SAC) agents. We show that PI-SAC agents can substantially improve sample efficiency over challenging baselines on tasks from the DM Control suite of continuous control environments. We evaluate PI-SAC agents by comparing against uncompressed PI-SAC agents, other compressed and uncompressed agents, and SAC agents directly trained from pixels. 

Title: Deep Dexterous Grasping of Novel Objects from a Single View
Abstract:  Dexterous grasping of a novel object given a single view is an open problem. This paper makes several contributions to its solution. First, we present a simulator for generating and testing dexterous grasps. Second we present a data set, generated by this simulator, of 2.4 million simulated dexterous grasps of variations of 294 base objects drawn from 20 categories. Third, we present a basic architecture for generation and evaluation of dexterous grasps that may be trained in a supervised manner. Fourth, we present three different evaluative architectures, employing ResNet-50 or VGG16 as their visual backbone. Fifth, we train, and evaluate seventeen variants of generative-evaluative architectures on this simulated data set, showing improvement from 69.53% grasp success rate to 90.49%. Finally, we present a real robot implementation and evaluate the four most promising variants, executing 196 real robot grasps in total. We show that our best architectural variant achieves a grasp success rate of 87.8% on real novel objects seen from a single view, improving on a baseline of 57.1%. 

Title: Reinforcement Learning from Imperfect Demonstrations under Soft Expert Guidance
Abstract:  In this paper, we study Reinforcement Learning from Demonstrations (RLfD) that improves the exploration efficiency of Reinforcement Learning (RL) by providing expert demonstrations. Most of existing RLfD methods require demonstrations to be perfect and sufficient, which yet is unrealistic to meet in practice. To work on imperfect demonstrations, we first define an imperfect expert setting for RLfD in a formal way, and then point out that previous methods suffer from two issues in terms of optimality and convergence, respectively. Upon the theoretical findings we have derived, we tackle these two issues by regarding the expert guidance as a soft constraint on regulating the policy exploration of the agent, which eventually leads to a constrained optimization problem. We further demonstrate that such problem is able to be addressed efficiently by performing a local linear search on its dual form. Considerable empirical evaluations on a comprehensive collection of benchmarks indicate our method attains consistent improvement over other RLfD counterparts. 

Title: Design and Analysis of a Single-Camera Omnistereo Sensor for Quadrotor Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs)
Abstract:  We describe the design and 3D sensing performance of an omnidirectional stereo-vision system (omnistereo) as applied to Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs). The proposed omnistereo model employs a monocular camera that is co-axially aligned with a pair of hyperboloidal mirrors (folded catadioptric configuration). We show that this arrangement is practical for performing stereo-vision when mounted on top of propeller-based MAVs characterized by low payloads. The theoretical single viewpoint (SVP) constraint helps us derive analytical solutions for the sensor's projective geometry and generate SVP-compliant panoramic images to compute 3D information from stereo correspondences (in a truly synchronous fashion). We perform an extensive analysis on various system characteristics such as its size, catadioptric spatial resolution, field-of-view. In addition, we pose a probabilistic model for uncertainty estimation of the depth from triangulation for skew back-projection rays. We expect to motivate the reproducibility of our solution since it can be adapted (optimally) to other catadioptric-based omnistereo vision applications. 

Title: Teaching Perception
Abstract:  The visual world is very rich and generally too complex to perceive in its entirety. Yet only certain features are typically required to adequately perform some task in a given situation. Rather than hardwire-in decisions about when and what to sense, this paper describes a robotic system whose behavioral policy can be set by verbal instructions it receives. These capabilities are demonstrated in an associated video showing the fully implemented system guiding the perception of a physical robot in simple scenario. The structure and functioning of the underlying natural language based symbolic reasoning system is also discussed. 

Title: Real-Time Variational Fisheye Stereo without Rectification and Undistortion
Abstract:  Dense 3D maps from wide-angle cameras is beneficial to robotics applications such as navigation and autonomous driving. In this work, we propose a real-time dense 3D mapping method for fisheye cameras without explicit rectification and undistortion. We extend the conventional variational stereo method by constraining the correspondence search along the epipolar curve using a trajectory field induced by camera motion. We also propose a fast way of generating the trajectory field without increasing the processing time compared to conventional rectified methods. With our implementation, we were able to achieve real-time processing using modern GPUs. Our results show the advantages of our non-rectified dense mapping approach compared to rectified variational methods and non-rectified discrete stereo matching methods. 

Title: Using Deep Reinforcement Learning for the Continuous Control of Robotic Arms
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning enables algorithms to learn complex behavior, deal with continuous action spaces and find good strategies in environments with high dimensional state spaces. With deep reinforcement learning being an active area of research and many concurrent inventions, we decided to focus on a relatively simple robotic task to evaluate a set of ideas that might help to solve recent reinforcement learning problems. We test a newly created combination of two commonly used reinforcement learning methods, whether it is able to learn more effectively than a baseline. We also compare different ideas to preprocess information before it is fed to the reinforcement learning algorithm. The goal of this strategy is to reduce training time and eventually help the algorithm to converge. The concluding evaluation proves the general applicability of the described concepts by testing them using a simulated environment. These concepts might be reused for future experiments. 

Title: Vision-based deep execution monitoring
Abstract:  Execution monitor of high-level robot actions can be effectively improved by visual monitoring the state of the world in terms of preconditions and postconditions that hold before and after the execution of an action. Furthermore a policy for searching where to look at, either for verifying the relations that specify the pre and postconditions or to refocus in case of a failure, can tremendously improve the robot execution in an uncharted environment. It is now possible to strongly rely on visual perception in order to make the assumption that the environment is observable, by the amazing results of deep learning. In this work we present visual execution monitoring for a robot executing tasks in an uncharted Lab environment. The execution monitor interacts with the environment via a visual stream that uses two DCNN for recognizing the objects the robot has to deal with and manipulate, and a non-parametric Bayes estimation to discover the relations out of the DCNN features. To recover from lack of focus and failures due to missed objects we resort to visual search policies via deep reinforcement learning. 

Title: Deep Online Learning via Meta-Learning: Continual Adaptation for Model-Based RL
Abstract:  Humans and animals can learn complex predictive models that allow them to accurately and reliably reason about real-world phenomena, and they can adapt such models extremely quickly in the face of unexpected changes. Deep neural network models allow us to represent very complex functions, but lack this capacity for rapid online adaptation. The goal in this paper is to develop a method for continual online learning from an incoming stream of data, using deep neural network models. We formulate an online learning procedure that uses stochastic gradient descent to update model parameters, and an expectation maximization algorithm with a Chinese restaurant process prior to develop and maintain a mixture of models to handle non-stationary task distributions. This allows for all models to be adapted as necessary, with new models instantiated for task changes and old models recalled when previously seen tasks are encountered again. Furthermore, we observe that meta-learning can be used to meta-train a model such that this direct online adaptation with SGD is effective, which is otherwise not the case for large function approximators. In this work, we apply our meta-learning for online learning (MOLe) approach to model-based reinforcement learning, where adapting the predictive model is critical for control; we demonstrate that MOLe outperforms alternative prior methods, and enables effective continuous adaptation in non-stationary task distributions such as varying terrains, motor failures, and unexpected disturbances. 

Title: Value Iteration Networks on Multiple Levels of Abstraction
Abstract:  Learning-based methods are promising to plan robot motion without performing extensive search, which is needed by many non-learning approaches. Recently, Value Iteration Networks (VINs) received much interest since---in contrast to standard CNN-based architectures---they learn goal-directed behaviors which generalize well to unseen domains. However, VINs are restricted to small and low-dimensional domains, limiting their applicability to real-world planning problems. To address this issue, we propose to extend VINs to representations with multiple levels of abstraction. While the vicinity of the robot is represented in sufficient detail, the representation gets spatially coarser with increasing distance from the robot. The information loss caused by the decreasing resolution is compensated by increasing the number of features representing a cell. We show that our approach is capable of solving significantly larger 2D grid world planning tasks than the original VIN implementation. In contrast to a multiresolution coarse-to-fine VIN implementation which does not employ additional descriptive features, our approach is capable of solving challenging environments, which demonstrates that the proposed method learns to encode useful information in the additional features. As an application for solving real-world planning tasks, we successfully employ our method to plan omnidirectional driving for a search-and-rescue robot in cluttered terrain. 

Title: The Event-Camera Dataset and Simulator: Event-based Data for Pose Estimation, Visual Odometry, and SLAM
Abstract:  New vision sensors, such as the Dynamic and Active-pixel Vision sensor (DAVIS), incorporate a conventional global-shutter camera and an event-based sensor in the same pixel array. These sensors have great potential for high-speed robotics and computer vision because they allow us to combine the benefits of conventional cameras with those of event-based sensors: low latency, high temporal resolution, and very high dynamic range. However, new algorithms are required to exploit the sensor characteristics and cope with its unconventional output, which consists of a stream of asynchronous brightness changes (called "events") and synchronous grayscale frames. For this purpose, we present and release a collection of datasets captured with a DAVIS in a variety of synthetic and real environments, which we hope will motivate research on new algorithms for high-speed and high-dynamic-range robotics and computer-vision applications. In addition to global-shutter intensity images and asynchronous events, we provide inertial measurements and ground-truth camera poses from a motion-capture system. The latter allows comparing the pose accuracy of ego-motion estimation algorithms quantitatively. All the data are released both as standard text files and binary files (i.e., rosbag). This paper provides an overview of the available data and describes a simulator that we release open-source to create synthetic event-camera data. 

Title: Optimal least-squares solution to the hand-eye calibration problem
Abstract:  We propose a least-squares formulation to the noisy hand-eye calibration problem using dual-quaternions, and introduce efficient algorithms to find the exact optimal solution, based on analytic properties of the problem, avoiding non-linear optimization. We further present simple analytic approximate solutions which provide remarkably good estimations compared to the exact solution. In addition, we show how to generalize our solution to account for a given extrinsic prior in the cost function. To the best of our knowledge our algorithm is the most efficient approach to optimally solve the hand-eye calibration problem. 

Title: An Open Source and Open Hardware Deep Learning-powered Visual Navigation Engine for Autonomous Nano-UAVs
Abstract:  Nano-size unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), with few centimeters of diameter and sub-10 Watts of total power budget, have so far been considered incapable of running sophisticated visual-based autonomous navigation software without external aid from base-stations, ad-hoc local positioning infrastructure, and powerful external computation servers. In this work, we present what is, to the best of our knowledge, the first 27g nano-UAV system able to run aboard an end-to-end, closed-loop visual pipeline for autonomous navigation based on a state-of-the-art deep-learning algorithm, built upon the open-source CrazyFlie 2.0 nano-quadrotor. Our visual navigation engine is enabled by the combination of an ultra-low power computing device (the GAP8 system-on-chip) with a novel methodology for the deployment of deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs). We enable onboard real-time execution of a state-of-the-art deep CNN at up to 18Hz. Field experiments demonstrate that the system's high responsiveness prevents collisions with unexpected dynamic obstacles up to a flight speed of 1.5m/s. In addition, we also demonstrate the capability of our visual navigation engine of fully autonomous indoor navigation on a 113m previously unseen path. To share our key findings with the embedded and robotics communities and foster further developments in autonomous nano-UAVs, we publicly release all our code, datasets, and trained networks. 

Title: Deep Learning of Robotic Tasks without a Simulator using Strong and Weak Human Supervision
Abstract:  We propose a scheme for training a computerized agent to perform complex human tasks such as highway steering. The scheme is designed to follow a natural learning process whereby a human instructor teaches a computerized trainee. The learning process consists of five elements: (i) unsupervised feature learning; (ii) supervised imitation learning; (iii) supervised reward induction; (iv) supervised safety module construction; and (v) reinforcement learning. We implemented the last four elements of the scheme using deep convolutional networks and applied it to successfully create a computerized agent capable of autonomous highway steering over the well-known racing game Assetto Corsa. We demonstrate that the use of the last four elements is essential to effectively carry out the steering task using vision alone, without access to a driving simulator internals, and operating in wall-clock time. This is made possible also through the introduction of a safety network, a novel way for preventing the agent from performing catastrophic mistakes during the reinforcement learning stage. 

Title: Conversational Group Detection With Deep Convolutional Networks
Abstract:  Detection of interacting and conversational groups from images has applications in video surveillance and social robotics. In this paper we build on prior attempts to find conversational groups by detection of social gathering spaces called o-spaces used to assign people to groups. As our contributions to the task, we are the first paper to incorporate features extracted from the room layout image, and the first to incorporate a deep network to generate an image representation of the proposed o-spaces. Specifically, this novel network builds on the PointNet architecture which allows unordered inputs of variable sizes. We present accuracies which demonstrate the ability to rival and sometimes outperform the best models, but due to a data imbalance issue we do not yet outperform existing models in our test results. 

Title: Object Detection and Classification in Occupancy Grid Maps using Deep Convolutional Networks
Abstract:  A detailed environment perception is a crucial component of automated vehicles. However, to deal with the amount of perceived information, we also require segmentation strategies. Based on a grid map environment representation, well-suited for sensor fusion, free-space estimation and machine learning, we detect and classify objects using deep convolutional neural networks. As input for our networks we use a multi-layer grid map efficiently encoding 3D range sensor information. The inference output consists of a list of rotated bounding boxes with associated semantic classes. We conduct extensive ablation studies, highlight important design considerations when using grid maps and evaluate our models on the KITTI Bird's Eye View benchmark. Qualitative and quantitative benchmark results show that we achieve robust detection and state of the art accuracy solely using top-view grid maps from range sensor data. 

Title: Depth-Based Object Tracking Using a Robust Gaussian Filter
Abstract:  We consider the problem of model-based 3D-tracking of objects given dense depth images as input. Two difficulties preclude the application of a standard Gaussian filter to this problem. First of all, depth sensors are characterized by fat-tailed measurement noise. To address this issue, we show how a recently published robustification method for Gaussian filters can be applied to the problem at hand. Thereby, we avoid using heuristic outlier detection methods that simply reject measurements if they do not match the model. Secondly, the computational cost of the standard Gaussian filter is prohibitive due to the high-dimensional measurement, i.e. the depth image. To address this problem, we propose an approximation to reduce the computational complexity of the filter. In quantitative experiments on real data we show how our method clearly outperforms the standard Gaussian filter. Furthermore, we compare its performance to a particle-filter-based tracking method, and observe comparable computational efficiency and improved accuracy and smoothness of the estimates. 

Title: Fast and stable MAP-Elites in noisy domains using deep grids
Abstract:  Quality-Diversity optimisation algorithms enable the evolution of collections of both high-performing and diverse solutions. These collections offer the possibility to quickly adapt and switch from one solution to another in case it is not working as expected. It therefore finds many applications in real-world domain problems such as robotic control. However, QD algorithms, like most optimisation algorithms, are very sensitive to uncertainty on the fitness function, but also on the behavioural descriptors. Yet, such uncertainties are frequent in real-world applications. Few works have explored this issue in the specific case of QD algorithms, and inspired by the literature in Evolutionary Computation, mainly focus on using sampling to approximate the "true" value of the performances of a solution. However, sampling approaches require a high number of evaluations, which in many applications such as robotics, can quickly become impractical. In this work, we propose Deep-Grid MAP-Elites, a variant of the MAP-Elites algorithm that uses an archive of similar previously encountered solutions to approximate the performance of a solution. We compare our approach to previously explored ones on three noisy tasks: a standard optimisation task, the control of a redundant arm and a simulated Hexapod robot. The experimental results show that this simple approach is significantly more resilient to noise on the behavioural descriptors, while achieving competitive performances in terms of fitness optimisation, and being more sample-efficient than other existing approaches. 

Title: CASSL: Curriculum Accelerated Self-Supervised Learning
Abstract:  Recent self-supervised learning approaches focus on using a few thousand data points to learn policies for high-level, low-dimensional action spaces. However, scaling this framework for high-dimensional control require either scaling up the data collection efforts or using a clever sampling strategy for training. We present a novel approach - Curriculum Accelerated Self-Supervised Learning (CASSL) - to train policies that map visual information to high-level, higher- dimensional action spaces. CASSL orders the sampling of training data based on control dimensions: the learning and sampling are focused on few control parameters before other parameters. The right curriculum for learning is suggested by variance-based global sensitivity analysis of the control space. We apply our CASSL framework to learning how to grasp using an adaptive, underactuated multi-fingered gripper, a challenging system to control. Our experimental results indicate that CASSL provides significant improvement and generalization compared to baseline methods such as staged curriculum learning (8% increase) and complete end-to-end learning with random exploration (14% improvement) tested on a set of novel objects. 

Title: VUNet: Dynamic Scene View Synthesis for Traversability Estimation using an RGB Camera
Abstract:  We present VUNet, a novel view(VU) synthesis method for mobile robots in dynamic environments, and its application to the estimation of future traversability. Our method predicts future images for given virtual robot velocity commands using only RGB images at previous and current time steps. The future images result from applying two types of image changes to the previous and current images: 1) changes caused by different camera pose, and 2) changes due to the motion of the dynamic obstacles. We learn to predict these two types of changes disjointly using two novel network architectures, SNet and DNet. We combine SNet and DNet to synthesize future images that we pass to our previously presented method GONet to estimate the traversable areas around the robot. Our quantitative and qualitative evaluation indicate that our approach for view synthesis predicts accurate future images in both static and dynamic environments. We also show that these virtual images can be used to estimate future traversability correctly. We apply our view synthesis-based traversability estimation method to two applications for assisted teleoperation. 

Title: Gibbs Sampling Strategies for Semantic Perception of Streaming Video Data
Abstract:  Topic modeling of streaming sensor data can be used for high level perception of the environment by a mobile robot. In this paper we compare various Gibbs sampling strategies for topic modeling of streaming spatiotemporal data, such as video captured by a mobile robot. Compared to previous work on online topic modeling, such as o-LDA and incremental LDA, we show that the proposed technique results in lower online and final perplexity, given the realtime constraints. 

Title: GQ-STN: Optimizing One-Shot Grasp Detection based on Robustness Classifier
Abstract:  Grasping is a fundamental robotic task needed for the deployment of household robots or furthering warehouse automation. However, few approaches are able to perform grasp detection in real time (frame rate). To this effect, we present Grasp Quality Spatial Transformer Network (GQ-STN), a one-shot grasp detection network. Being based on the Spatial Transformer Network (STN), it produces not only a grasp configuration, but also directly outputs a depth image centered at this configuration. By connecting our architecture to an externally-trained grasp robustness evaluation network, we can train efficiently to satisfy a robustness metric via the backpropagation of the gradient emanating from the evaluation network. This removes the difficulty of training detection networks on sparsely annotated databases, a common issue in grasping. We further propose to use this robustness classifier to compare approaches, being more reliable than the traditional rectangle metric. Our GQ-STN is able to detect robust grasps on the depth images of the Dex-Net 2.0 dataset with 92.4 % accuracy in a single pass of the network. We finally demonstrate in a physical benchmark that our method can propose robust grasps more often than previous sampling-based methods, while being more than 60 times faster. 

Title: 4D Generic Video Object Proposals
Abstract:  Many high-level video understanding methods require input in the form of object proposals. Currently, such proposals are predominantly generated with the help of networks that were trained for detecting and segmenting a set of known object classes, which limits their applicability to cases where all objects of interest are represented in the training set. This is a restriction for automotive scenarios, where unknown objects can frequently occur. We propose an approach that can reliably extract spatio-temporal object proposals for both known and unknown object categories from stereo video. Our 4D Generic Video Tubes (4D-GVT) method leverages motion cues, stereo data, and object instance segmentation to compute a compact set of video-object proposals that precisely localizes object candidates and their contours in 3D space and time. We show that given only a small amount of labeled data, our 4D-GVT proposal generator generalizes well to real-world scenarios, in which unknown categories appear. It outperforms other approaches that try to detect as many objects as possible by increasing the number of classes in the training set to several thousand. 

Title: Learning to Navigate Using Mid-Level Visual Priors
Abstract:  How much does having visual priors about the world (e.g. the fact that the world is 3D) assist in learning to perform downstream motor tasks (e.g. navigating a complex environment)? What are the consequences of not utilizing such visual priors in learning? We study these questions by integrating a generic perceptual skill set (a distance estimator, an edge detector, etc.) within a reinforcement learning framework (see Fig. 1). This skill set ("mid-level vision") provides the policy with a more processed state of the world compared to raw images. Our large-scale study demonstrates that using mid-level vision results in policies that learn faster, generalize better, and achieve higher final performance, when compared to learning from scratch and/or using state-of-the-art visual and non-visual representation learning methods. We show that conventional computer vision objectives are particularly effective in this regard and can be conveniently integrated into reinforcement learning frameworks. Finally, we found that no single visual representation was universally useful for all downstream tasks, hence we computationally derive a task-agnostic set of representations optimized to support arbitrary downstream tasks. 

Title: PointNetKL: Deep Inference for GICP Covariance Estimation in Bathymetric SLAM
Abstract:  Registration methods for point clouds have become a key component of many SLAM systems on autonomous vehicles. However, an accurate estimate of the uncertainty of such registration is a key requirement to a consistent fusion of this kind of measurements in a SLAM filter. This estimate, which is normally given as a covariance in the transformation computed between point cloud reference frames, has been modelled following different approaches, among which the most accurate is considered to be the Monte Carlo method. However, a Monte Carlo approximation is cumbersome to use inside a time-critical application such as online SLAM. Efforts have been made to estimate this covariance via machine learning using carefully designed features to abstract the raw point clouds. However, the performance of this approach is sensitive to the features chosen. We argue that it is possible to learn the features along with the covariance by working with the raw data and thus we propose a new approach based on PointNet. In this work, we train this network using the KL divergence between the learned uncertainty distribution and one computed by the Monte Carlo method as the loss. We test the performance of the general model presented applying it to our target use-case of SLAM with an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) restricted to the 2-dimensional registration of 3D bathymetric point clouds. 

Title: Learning an internal representation of the end-effector configuration space
Abstract:  Current machine learning techniques proposed to automatically discover a robot kinematics usually rely on a priori information about the robot's structure, sensors properties or end-effector position. This paper proposes a method to estimate a certain aspect of the forward kinematics model with no such information. An internal representation of the end-effector configuration is generated from unstructured proprioceptive and exteroceptive data flow under very limited assumptions. A mapping from the proprioceptive space to this representational space can then be used to control the robot. 

Title: Sparse Graphical Memory for Robust Planning
Abstract:  To operate effectively in the real world, artificial agents must act from raw sensory input such as images and achieve diverse goals across long time-horizons. On the one hand, recent strides in deep reinforcement and imitation learning have demonstrated impressive ability to learn goal-conditioned policies from high-dimensional image input, though only for short-horizon tasks. On the other hand, classical graphical methods like A* search are able to solve long-horizon tasks, but assume that the graph structure is abstracted away from raw sensory input and can only be constructed with task-specific priors. We wish to combine the strengths of deep learning and classical planning to solve long-horizon tasks from raw sensory input. To this end, we introduce Sparse Graphical Memory (SGM), a new data structure that stores observations and feasible transitions in a sparse memory. SGM can be combined with goal-conditioned RL or imitative agents to solve long-horizon tasks across a diverse set of domains. We show that SGM significantly outperforms current state of the art methods on long-horizon, sparse-reward visual navigation tasks. Project video and code are available at https://mishalaskin.github.io/sgm/ 

Title: Direct Sparse Visual-Inertial Odometry using Dynamic Marginalization
Abstract:  We present VI-DSO, a novel approach for visual-inertial odometry, which jointly estimates camera poses and sparse scene geometry by minimizing photometric and IMU measurement errors in a combined energy functional. The visual part of the system performs a bundle-adjustment like optimization on a sparse set of points, but unlike key-point based systems it directly minimizes a photometric error. This makes it possible for the system to track not only corners, but any pixels with large enough intensity gradients. IMU information is accumulated between several frames using measurement preintegration, and is inserted into the optimization as an additional constraint between keyframes. We explicitly include scale and gravity direction into our model and jointly optimize them together with other variables such as poses. As the scale is often not immediately observable using IMU data this allows us to initialize our visual-inertial system with an arbitrary scale instead of having to delay the initialization until everything is observable. We perform partial marginalization of old variables so that updates can be computed in a reasonable time. In order to keep the system consistent we propose a novel strategy which we call "dynamic marginalization". This technique allows us to use partial marginalization even in cases where the initial scale estimate is far from the optimum. We evaluate our method on the challenging EuRoC dataset, showing that VI-DSO outperforms the state of the art. 

Title: Virtual-to-real Deep Reinforcement Learning: Continuous Control of Mobile Robots for Mapless Navigation
Abstract:  We present a learning-based mapless motion planner by taking the sparse 10-dimensional range findings and the target position with respect to the mobile robot coordinate frame as input and the continuous steering commands as output. Traditional motion planners for mobile ground robots with a laser range sensor mostly depend on the obstacle map of the navigation environment where both the highly precise laser sensor and the obstacle map building work of the environment are indispensable. We show that, through an asynchronous deep reinforcement learning method, a mapless motion planner can be trained end-to-end without any manually designed features and prior demonstrations. The trained planner can be directly applied in unseen virtual and real environments. The experiments show that the proposed mapless motion planner can navigate the nonholonomic mobile robot to the desired targets without colliding with any obstacles. 

Title: Learning from demonstration with model-based Gaussian process
Abstract:  In learning from demonstrations, it is often desirable to adapt the behavior of the robot as a function of the variability retrieved from human demonstrations and the (un)certainty encoded in different parts of the task. In this paper, we propose a novel multi-output Gaussian process (MOGP) based on Gaussian mixture regression (GMR). The proposed approach encapsulates the variability retrieved from the demonstrations in the covariance of the MOGP. Leveraging the generative nature of GP models, our approach can efficiently modulate trajectories towards new start-, via- or end-points defined by the task. Our framework allows the robot to precisely track via-points while being compliant in regions of high variability. We illustrate the proposed approach in simulated examples and validate it in a real-robot experiment. 

Title: Kinematic Morphing Networks for Manipulation Skill Transfer
Abstract:  The transfer of a robot skill between different geometric environments is non-trivial since a wide variety of environments exists, sensor observations as well as robot motions are high-dimensional, and the environment might only be partially observed. We consider the problem of extracting a low-dimensional description of the manipulated environment in form of a kinematic model. This allows us to transfer a skill by defining a policy on a prototype model and morphing the observed environment to this prototype. A deep neural network is used to map depth image observations of the environment to morphing parameter, which include transformation and configuration parameters of the prototype model. Using the concatenation property of affine transformations and the ability to convert point clouds to depth images allows to apply the network in an iterative manner. The network is trained on data generated in a simulator and on augmented data that is created by using network predictions. The algorithm is evaluated on different tasks, where it is shown that iterative predictions lead to a higher accuracy than one-step predictions. 

Title: Markerless Visual Robot Programming by Demonstration
Abstract:  In this paper we present an approach for learning to imitate human behavior on a semantic level by markerless visual observation. We analyze a set of spatial constraints on human pose data extracted using convolutional pose machines and object informations extracted from 2D image sequences. A scene analysis, based on an ontology of objects and affordances, is combined with continuous human pose estimation and spatial object relations. Using a set of constraints we associate the observed human actions with a set of executable robot commands. We demonstrate our approach in a kitchen task, where the robot learns to prepare a meal. 

Title: DFineNet: Ego-Motion Estimation and Depth Refinement from Sparse, Noisy Depth Input with RGB Guidance
Abstract:  Depth estimation is an important capability for autonomous vehicles to understand and reconstruct 3D environments as well as avoid obstacles during the execution. Accurate depth sensors such as LiDARs are often heavy, expensive and can only provide sparse depth while lighter depth sensors such as stereo cameras are noiser in comparison. We propose an end-to-end learning algorithm that is capable of using sparse, noisy input depth for refinement and depth completion. Our model also produces the camera pose as a byproduct, making it a great solution for autonomous systems. We evaluate our approach on both indoor and outdoor datasets. Empirical results show that our method performs well on the KITTI~\cite{kitti_geiger2012we} dataset when compared to other competing methods, while having superior performance in dealing with sparse, noisy input depth on the TUM~\cite{sturm12iros} dataset. 

Title: Vision-Aided Absolute Trajectory Estimation Using an Unsupervised Deep Network with Online Error Correction
Abstract:  We present an unsupervised deep neural network approach to the fusion of RGB-D imagery with inertial measurements for absolute trajectory estimation. Our network, dubbed the Visual-Inertial-Odometry Learner (VIOLearner), learns to perform visual-inertial odometry (VIO) without inertial measurement unit (IMU) intrinsic parameters (corresponding to gyroscope and accelerometer bias or white noise) or the extrinsic calibration between an IMU and camera. The network learns to integrate IMU measurements and generate hypothesis trajectories which are then corrected online according to the Jacobians of scaled image projection errors with respect to a spatial grid of pixel coordinates. We evaluate our network against state-of-the-art (SOA) visual-inertial odometry, visual odometry, and visual simultaneous localization and mapping (VSLAM) approaches on the KITTI Odometry dataset and demonstrate competitive odometry performance. 

Title: Self-supervised Sparse-to-Dense: Self-supervised Depth Completion from LiDAR and Monocular Camera
Abstract:  Depth completion, the technique of estimating a dense depth image from sparse depth measurements, has a variety of applications in robotics and autonomous driving. However, depth completion faces 3 main challenges: the irregularly spaced pattern in the sparse depth input, the difficulty in handling multiple sensor modalities (when color images are available), as well as the lack of dense, pixel-level ground truth depth labels. In this work, we address all these challenges. Specifically, we develop a deep regression model to learn a direct mapping from sparse depth (and color images) to dense depth. We also propose a self-supervised training framework that requires only sequences of color and sparse depth images, without the need for dense depth labels. Our experiments demonstrate that our network, when trained with semi-dense annotations, attains state-of-the- art accuracy and is the winning approach on the KITTI depth completion benchmark at the time of submission. Furthermore, the self-supervised framework outperforms a number of existing solutions trained with semi- dense annotations. 

Title: EM-Fusion: Dynamic Object-Level SLAM with Probabilistic Data Association
Abstract:  The majority of approaches for acquiring dense 3D environment maps with RGB-D cameras assumes static environments or rejects moving objects as outliers. The representation and tracking of moving objects, however, has significant potential for applications in robotics or augmented reality. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to dynamic SLAM with dense object-level representations. We represent rigid objects in local volumetric signed distance function (SDF) maps, and formulate multi-object tracking as direct alignment of RGB-D images with the SDF representations. Our main novelty is a probabilistic formulation which naturally leads to strategies for data association and occlusion handling. We analyze our approach in experiments and demonstrate that our approach compares favorably with the state-of-the-art methods in terms of robustness and accuracy. 

Title: LADAR-Based Mover Detection from Moving Vehicles
Abstract:  Detecting moving vehicles and people is crucial for safe operation of UGVs but is challenging in cluttered, real world environments. We propose a registration technique that enables objects to be robustly matched and tracked, and hence movers to be detected even in high clutter. Range data are acquired using a 2D scanning Ladar from a moving platform. These are automatically clustered into objects and modeled using a surface density function. A Bhattacharya similarity is optimized to register subsequent views of each object enabling good discrimination and tracking, and hence mover detection. 

Title: Large-scale 6D Object Pose Estimation Dataset for Industrial Bin-Picking
Abstract:  In this paper, we introduce a new public dataset for 6D object pose estimation and instance segmentation for industrial bin-picking. The dataset comprises both synthetic and real-world scenes. For both, point clouds, depth images, and annotations comprising the 6D pose (position and orientation), a visibility score, and a segmentation mask for each object are provided. Along with the raw data, a method for precisely annotating real-world scenes is proposed. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first public dataset for 6D object pose estimation and instance segmentation for bin-picking containing sufficiently annotated data for learning-based approaches. Furthermore, it is one of the largest public datasets for object pose estimation in general. The dataset is publicly available at http://www.bin-picking.ai/en/dataset.html. 

Title: Purely Geometric Scene Association and Retrieval - A Case for Macro Scale 3D Geometry
Abstract:  We address the problems of measuring geometric similarity between 3D scenes, represented through point clouds or range data frames, and associating them. Our approach leverages macro-scale 3D structural geometry - the relative configuration of arbitrary surfaces and relationships among structures that are potentially far apart. We express such discriminative information in a viewpoint-invariant feature space. These are subsequently encoded in a frame-level signature that can be utilized to measure geometric similarity. Such a characterization is robust to noise, incomplete and partially overlapping data besides viewpoint changes. We show how it can be employed to select a diverse set of data frames which have structurally similar content, and how to validate whether views with similar geometric content are from the same scene. The problem is formulated as one of general purpose retrieval from an unannotated, spatio-temporally unordered database. Empirical analysis indicates that the presented approach thoroughly outperforms baselines on depth / range data. Its depth-only performance is competitive with state-of-the-art approaches with RGB or RGB-D inputs, including ones based on deep learning. Experiments show retrieval performance to hold up well with much sparser databases, which is indicative of the approach's robustness. The approach generalized well - it did not require dataset specific training, and scaled up in our experiments. Finally, we also demonstrate how geometrically diverse selection of views can result in richer 3D reconstructions. 

Title: Real-time Semantic Segmentation with Fast Attention
Abstract:  In deep CNN based models for semantic segmentation, high accuracy relies on rich spatial context (large receptive fields) and fine spatial details (high resolution), both of which incur high computational costs. In this paper, we propose a novel architecture that addresses both challenges and achieves state-of-the-art performance for semantic segmentation of high-resolution images and videos in real-time. The proposed architecture relies on our fast spatial attention, which is a simple yet efficient modification of the popular self-attention mechanism and captures the same rich spatial context at a small fraction of the computational cost, by changing the order of operations. Moreover, to efficiently process high-resolution input, we apply an additional spatial reduction to intermediate feature stages of the network with minimal loss in accuracy thanks to the use of the fast attention module to fuse features. We validate our method with a series of experiments, and show that results on multiple datasets demonstrate superior performance with better accuracy and speed compared to existing approaches for real-time semantic segmentation. On Cityscapes, our network achieves 74.4$\%$ mIoU at 72 FPS and 75.5$\%$ mIoU at 58 FPS on a single Titan X GPU, which is~$\sim$50$\%$ faster than the state-of-the-art while retaining the same accuracy. 

Title: End-to-End Deep Reinforcement Learning for Lane Keeping Assist
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning is considered to be a strong AI paradigm which can be used to teach machines through interaction with the environment and learning from their mistakes, but it has not yet been successfully used for automotive applications. There has recently been a revival of interest in the topic, however, driven by the ability of deep learning algorithms to learn good representations of the environment. Motivated by Google DeepMind's successful demonstrations of learning for games from Breakout to Go, we will propose different methods for autonomous driving using deep reinforcement learning. This is of particular interest as it is difficult to pose autonomous driving as a supervised learning problem as it has a strong interaction with the environment including other vehicles, pedestrians and roadworks. As this is a relatively new area of research for autonomous driving, we will formulate two main categories of algorithms: 1) Discrete actions category, and 2) Continuous actions category. For the discrete actions category, we will deal with Deep Q-Network Algorithm (DQN) while for the continuous actions category, we will deal with Deep Deterministic Actor Critic Algorithm (DDAC). In addition to that, We will also discover the performance of these two categories on an open source car simulator for Racing called (TORCS) which stands for The Open Racing car Simulator. Our simulation results demonstrate learning of autonomous maneuvering in a scenario of complex road curvatures and simple interaction with other vehicles. Finally, we explain the effect of some restricted conditions, put on the car during the learning phase, on the convergence time for finishing its learning phase. 

Title: Free Form based active contours for image segmentation and free space perception
Abstract:  In this paper we present a novel approach for representing and evolving deformable active contours. The method combines piecewise regular B{\'e}zier models and curve evolution defined by local Free Form Deformation. The contour deformation is locally constrained which allows contour convergence with almost linear complexity while adapting to various shape settings and handling topology changes of the active contour. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the new active contour scheme for visual free space perception and segmentation using omnidirectional images acquired by a robot exploring unknown indoor and outdoor environments. Several experiments validate the approach with comparison to state-of-the art parametric and geometric active contours and provide fast and real-time robot free space segmentation and navigation. 

Title: GRIMGEP: Learning Progress for Robust Goal Sampling in Visual Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Autonomous agents using novelty based goal exploration are often efficient in environments that require exploration. However, they get attracted to various forms of distracting unlearnable regions. To solve this problem, absolute learning progress (ALP) has been used in reinforcement learning agents with predefined goal features and access to expert knowledge. This work extends those concepts to unsupervised image-based goal exploration. We present the GRIMGEP framework: it provides a learned robust goal sampling prior that can be used on top of current state-of-the-art novelty seeking goal exploration approaches, enabling them to ignore noisy distracting regions while searching for novelty in the learnable regions. It clusters the goal space and estimates ALP for each cluster. These ALP estimates can then be used to detect the distracting regions, and build a prior that enables further goal sampling mechanisms to ignore them. We construct an image based environment with distractors, on which we show that wrapping current state-of-the-art goal exploration algorithms with our framework allows them to concentrate on interesting regions of the environment and drastically improve performances. The source code is available at https://sites.google.com/view/grimgep. 

Title: Pedestrian Models for Autonomous Driving Part I: Low-Level Models, from Sensing to Tracking
Abstract:  Autonomous vehicles (AVs) must share space with pedestrians, both in carriageway cases such as cars at pedestrian crossings and off-carriageway cases such as delivery vehicles navigating through crowds on pedestrianized high-streets. Unlike static obstacles, pedestrians are active agents with complex, interactive motions. Planning AV actions in the presence of pedestrians thus requires modelling of their probable future behaviour as well as detecting and tracking them. This narrative review article is Part I of a pair, together surveying the current technology stack involved in this process, organising recent research into a hierarchical taxonomy ranging from low-level image detection to high-level psychology models, from the perspective of an AV designer. This self-contained Part I covers the lower levels of this stack, from sensing, through detection and recognition, up to tracking of pedestrians. Technologies at these levels are found to be mature and available as foundations for use in high-level systems, such as behaviour modelling, prediction and interaction control. 

Title: Automated Synthetic-to-Real Generalization
Abstract:  Models trained on synthetic images often face degraded generalization to real data. As a convention, these models are often initialized with ImageNet pre-trained representation. Yet the role of ImageNet knowledge is seldom discussed despite common practices that leverage this knowledge to maintain the generalization ability. An example is the careful hand-tuning of early stopping and layer-wise learning rates, which is shown to improve synthetic-to-real generalization but is also laborious and heuristic. In this work, we explicitly encourage the synthetically trained model to maintain similar representations with the ImageNet pre-trained model, and propose a \textit{learning-to-optimize (L2O)} strategy to automate the selection of layer-wise learning rates. We demonstrate that the proposed framework can significantly improve the synthetic-to-real generalization performance without seeing and training on real data, while also benefiting downstream tasks such as domain adaptation. Code is available at: https://github.com/NVlabs/ASG. 

Title: Robot Learning and Execution of Collaborative Manipulation Plans from YouTube Cooking Videos
Abstract:  People often watch videos on the web to learn how to cook new recipes, assemble furniture or repair a computer. We wish to enable robots with the very same capability. This is challenging; there is a large variation in manipulation actions and some videos even involve multiple persons, who collaborate by sharing and exchanging objects and tools. Furthermore, the learned representations need to be general enough to be transferable to robotic systems. On the other hand, previous work has shown that the space of human manipulation actions has a linguistic, hierarchical structure that relates actions to manipulated objects and tools. Building upon this theory of language for action, we propose a framework for understanding and executing demonstrated action sequences from full-length, unconstrained cooking videos on the web. The framework takes as input a cooking video annotated with object labels and bounding boxes, and outputs a collaborative manipulation action plan for one or more robotic arms. We demonstrate performance of the system in a standardized dataset of 100 YouTube cooking videos, as well as in three full-length Youtube videos that include collaborative actions between two participants. We additionally propose an open-source platform for executing the learned plans in a simulation environment as well as with an actual robotic arm. 

Title: Reward-rational (implicit) choice: A unifying formalism for reward learning
Abstract:  It is often difficult to hand-specify what the correct reward function is for a task, so researchers have instead aimed to learn reward functions from human behavior or feedback. The types of behavior interpreted as evidence of the reward function have expanded greatly in recent years. We've gone from demonstrations, to comparisons, to reading into the information leaked when the human is pushing the robot away or turning it off. And surely, there is more to come. How will a robot make sense of all these diverse types of behavior? Our key insight is that different types of behavior can be interpreted in a single unifying formalism - as a reward-rational choice that the human is making, often implicitly. The formalism offers both a unifying lens with which to view past work, as well as a recipe for interpreting new sources of information that are yet to be uncovered. We provide two examples to showcase this: interpreting a new feedback type, and reading into how the choice of feedback itself leaks information about the reward. 

Title: Bayesian Optimization with Automatic Prior Selection for Data-Efficient Direct Policy Search
Abstract:  One of the most interesting features of Bayesian optimization for direct policy search is that it can leverage priors (e.g., from simulation or from previous tasks) to accelerate learning on a robot. In this paper, we are interested in situations for which several priors exist but we do not know in advance which one fits best the current situation. We tackle this problem by introducing a novel acquisition function, called Most Likely Expected Improvement (MLEI), that combines the likelihood of the priors and the expected improvement. We evaluate this new acquisition function on a transfer learning task for a 5-DOF planar arm and on a possibly damaged, 6-legged robot that has to learn to walk on flat ground and on stairs, with priors corresponding to different stairs and different kinds of damages. Our results show that MLEI effectively identifies and exploits the priors, even when there is no obvious match between the current situations and the priors. 

Title: Imitation Learning for End to End Vehicle Longitudinal Control with Forward Camera
Abstract:  In this paper we present a complete study of an end-to-end imitation learning system for speed control of a real car, based on a neural network with a Long Short Term Memory (LSTM). To achieve robustness and generalization from expert demonstrations, we propose data augmentation and label augmentation that are relevant for imitation learning in longitudinal control context. Based on front camera image only, our system is able to correctly control the speed of a car in simulation environment, and in a real car on a challenging test track. The system also shows promising results in open road context. 

Title: Encoding Motion Primitives for Autonomous Vehicles using Virtual Velocity Constraints and Neural Network Scheduling
Abstract:  Within the context of trajectory planning for autonomous vehicles this paper proposes methods for efficient encoding of motion primitives in neural networks on top of model-based and gradient-free reinforcement learning. It is distinguished between 5 core aspects: system model, network architecture, training algorithm, training tasks selection and hardware/software implementation. For the system model, a kinematic (3-states-2-controls) and a dynamic (16-states-2-controls) vehicle model are compared. For the network architecture, 3 feedforward structures are compared including weighted skip connections. For the training algorithm, virtual velocity constraints and network scheduling are proposed. For the training tasks, different feature vector selections are discussed. For the implementation, aspects of gradient-free learning using 1 GPU and the handling of perturbation noise therefore are discussed. The effects of proposed methods are illustrated in experiments encoding up to 14625 motion primitives. The capabilities of tiny neural networks with as few as 10 scalar parameters when scheduled on vehicle velocity are emphasized. 

Title: DROW: Real-Time Deep Learning based Wheelchair Detection in 2D Range Data
Abstract:  We introduce the DROW detector, a deep learning based detector for 2D range data. Laser scanners are lighting invariant, provide accurate range data, and typically cover a large field of view, making them interesting sensors for robotics applications. So far, research on detection in laser range data has been dominated by hand-crafted features and boosted classifiers, potentially losing performance due to suboptimal design choices. We propose a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based detector for this task. We show how to effectively apply CNNs for detection in 2D range data, and propose a depth preprocessing step and voting scheme that significantly improve CNN performance. We demonstrate our approach on wheelchairs and walkers, obtaining state of the art detection results. Apart from the training data, none of our design choices limits the detector to these two classes, though. We provide a ROS node for our detector and release our dataset containing 464k laser scans, out of which 24k were annotated. 

Title: OrcVIO: Object residual constrained Visual-Inertial Odometry
Abstract:  Introducing object-level semantic information into simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) system is critical. It not only improves the performance but also enables tasks specified in terms of meaningful objects. This work presents OrcVIO, for visual-inertial odometry tightly coupled with tracking and optimization over structured object models. OrcVIO differentiates through semantic feature and bounding-box reprojection errors to perform batch optimization over the pose and shape of objects. The estimated object states aid in real-time incremental optimization over the IMU-camera states. The ability of OrcVIO for accurate trajectory estimation and large-scale object-level mapping is evaluated using real data. 

Title: Transferable Active Grasping and Real Embodied Dataset
Abstract:  Grasping in cluttered scenes is challenging for robot vision systems, as detection accuracy can be hindered by partial occlusion of objects. We adopt a reinforcement learning (RL) framework and 3D vision architectures to search for feasible viewpoints for grasping by the use of hand-mounted RGB-D cameras. To overcome the disadvantages of photo-realistic environment simulation, we propose a large-scale dataset called Real Embodied Dataset (RED), which includes full-viewpoint real samples on the upper hemisphere with amodal annotation and enables a simulator that has real visual feedback. Based on this dataset, a practical 3-stage transferable active grasping pipeline is developed, that is adaptive to unseen clutter scenes. In our pipeline, we propose a novel mask-guided reward to overcome the sparse reward issue in grasping and ensure category-irrelevant behavior. The grasping pipeline and its possible variants are evaluated with extensive experiments both in simulation and on a real-world UR-5 robotic arm. 

Title: Learning Force Control for Contact-rich Manipulation Tasks with Rigid Position-controlled Robots
Abstract:  Reinforcement Learning (RL) methods have been proven successful in solving manipulation tasks autonomously. However, RL is still not widely adopted on real robotic systems because working with real hardware entails additional challenges, especially when using rigid position-controlled manipulators. These challenges include the need for a robust controller to avoid undesired behavior, that risk damaging the robot and its environment, and constant supervision from a human operator. The main contributions of this work are, first, we proposed a learning-based force control framework combining RL techniques with traditional force control. Within said control scheme, we implemented two different conventional approaches to achieve force control with position-controlled robots; one is a modified parallel position/force control, and the other is an admittance control. Secondly, we empirically study both control schemes when used as the action space of the RL agent. Thirdly, we developed a fail-safe mechanism for safely training an RL agent on manipulation tasks using a real rigid robot manipulator. The proposed methods are validated on simulation and a real robot, an UR3 e-series robotic arm. 

Title: Multi-Agent Routing Value Iteration Network
Abstract:  In this paper we tackle the problem of routing multiple agents in a coordinated manner. This is a complex problem that has a wide range of applications in fleet management to achieve a common goal, such as mapping from a swarm of robots and ride sharing. Traditional methods are typically not designed for realistic environments hich contain sparsely connected graphs and unknown traffic, and are often too slow in runtime to be practical. In contrast, we propose a graph neural network based model that is able to perform multi-agent routing based on learned value iteration in a sparsely connected graph with dynamically changing traffic conditions. Moreover, our learned communication module enables the agents to coordinate online and adapt to changes more effectively. We created a simulated environment to mimic realistic mapping performed by autonomous vehicles with unknown minimum edge coverage and traffic conditions; our approach significantly outperforms traditional solvers both in terms of total cost and runtime. We also show that our model trained with only two agents on graphs with a maximum of 25 nodes can easily generalize to situations with more agents and/or nodes. 

Title: Modeling Curiosity in a Mobile Robot for Long-Term Autonomous Exploration and Monitoring
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel approach to modeling curiosity in a mobile robot, which is useful for monitoring and adaptive data collection tasks, especially in the context of long term autonomous missions where pre-programmed missions are likely to have limited utility. We use a realtime topic modeling technique to build a semantic perception model of the environment, using which, we plan a path through the locations in the world with high semantic information content. The life-long learning behavior of the proposed perception model makes it suitable for long-term exploration missions. We validate the approach using simulated exploration experiments using aerial and underwater data, and demonstrate an implementation on the Aqua underwater robot in a variety of scenarios. We find that the proposed exploration paths that are biased towards locations with high topic perplexity, produce better terrain models with high discriminative power. Moreover, we show that the proposed algorithm implemented on Aqua robot is able to do tasks such as coral reef inspection, diver following, and sea floor exploration, without any prior training or preparation. 

Title: Deep Person Detection in 2D Range Data
Abstract:  Detecting humans is a key skill for mobile robots and intelligent vehicles in a large variety of applications. While the problem is well studied for certain sensory modalities such as image data, few works exist that address this detection task using 2D range data. However, a widespread sensory setup for many mobile robots in service and domestic applications contains a horizontally mounted 2D laser scanner. Detecting people from 2D range data is challenging due to the speed and dynamics of human leg motion and the high levels of occlusion and self-occlusion particularly in crowds of people. While previous approaches mostly relied on handcrafted features, we recently developed the deep learning based wheelchair and walker detector DROW. In this paper, we show the generalization to people, including small modifications that significantly boost DROW's performance. Additionally, by providing a small, fully online temporal window in our network, we further boost our score. We extend the DROW dataset with person annotations, making this the largest dataset of person annotations in 2D range data, recorded during several days in a real-world environment with high diversity. Extensive experiments with three current baseline methods indicate it is a challenging dataset, on which our improved DROW detector beats the current state-of-the-art. 

Title: Online Parameter Estimation for Safety-Critical Systems with Gaussian Processes
Abstract:  Parameter estimation is crucial for modeling, tracking, and control of complex dynamical systems. However, parameter uncertainties can compromise system performance under a controller relying on nominal parameter values. Typically, parameters are estimated using numerical regression approaches framed as inverse problems. However, they suffer from non-uniqueness due to existence of multiple local optima, reliance on gradients, numerous experimental data, or stability issues. Addressing these drawbacks, we present a Bayesian optimization framework based on Gaussian processes (GPs) for online parameter estimation. It uses an efficient search strategy over a response surface in the parameter space for finding the global optima with minimal function evaluations. The response surface is modeled as correlated surrogates using GPs on noisy data. The GP posterior predictive variance is exploited for smart adaptive sampling. This balances the exploration versus exploitation trade-off which is key in reaching the global optima under limited budget. We demonstrate our technique on an actuated planar pendulum and safety-critical quadrotor in simulation with changing parameters. We also benchmark our results against solvers using interior point method and sequential quadratic program. By reconfiguring the controller with new optimized parameters iteratively, we drastically improve trajectory tracking of the system versus the nominal case and other solvers. 

Title: DOB-Net: Actively Rejecting Unknown Excessive Time-Varying Disturbances
Abstract:  This paper presents an observer-integrated Reinforcement Learning (RL) approach, called Disturbance OBserver Network (DOB-Net), for robots operating in environments where disturbances are unknown and time-varying, and may frequently exceed robot control capabilities. The DOB-Net integrates a disturbance dynamics observer network and a controller network. Originated from conventional DOB mechanisms, the observer is built and enhanced via Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), encoding estimation of past values and prediction of future values of unknown disturbances in RNN hidden state. Such encoding allows the controller generate optimal control signals to actively reject disturbances, under the constraints of robot control capabilities. The observer and the controller are jointly learned within policy optimization by advantage actor critic. Numerical simulations on position regulation tasks have demonstrated that the proposed DOB-Net significantly outperforms a conventional feedback controller and classical RL algorithms. 

Title: Generate What You Can't See - a View-dependent Image Generation
Abstract:  In order to operate autonomously, a robot should explore the environment and build a model of each of the surrounding objects. A common approach is to carefully scan the whole workspace. This is time-consuming. It is also often impossible to reach all the viewpoints required to acquire full knowledge about the environment. Humans can perform shape completion of occluded objects by relying on past experience. Therefore, we propose a method that generates images of an object from various viewpoints using a single input RGB image. A deep neural network is trained to imagine the object appearance from many viewpoints. We present the whole pipeline, which takes a single RGB image as input and returns a sequence of RGB and depth images of the object. The method utilizes a CNN-based object detector to extract the object from the natural scene. Then, the proposed network generates a set of RGB and depth images. We show the results both on a synthetic dataset and on real images. 

Title: Graduated Non-Convexity for Robust Spatial Perception: From Non-Minimal Solvers to Global Outlier Rejection
Abstract:  Semidefinite Programming (SDP) and Sums-of-Squares (SOS) relaxations have led to certifiably optimal non-minimal solvers for several robotics and computer vision problems. However, most non-minimal solvers rely on least-squares formulations, and, as a result, are brittle against outliers. While a standard approach to regain robustness against outliers is to use robust cost functions, the latter typically introduce other non-convexities, preventing the use of existing non-minimal solvers. In this paper, we enable the simultaneous use of non-minimal solvers and robust estimation by providing a general-purpose approach for robust global estimation, which can be applied to any problem where a non-minimal solver is available for the outlier-free case. To this end, we leverage the Black-Rangarajan duality between robust estimation and outlier processes (which has been traditionally applied to early vision problems), and show that graduated non-convexity (GNC) can be used in conjunction with non-minimal solvers to compute robust solutions, without requiring an initial guess. Although GNC's global optimality cannot be guaranteed, we demonstrate the empirical robustness of the resulting robust non-minimal solvers in applications, including point cloud and mesh registration, pose graph optimization, and image-based object pose estimation (also called shape alignment). Our solvers are robust to 70-80% of outliers, outperform RANSAC, are more accurate than specialized local solvers, and faster than specialized global solvers. We also propose the first certifiably optimal non-minimal solver for shape alignment using SOS relaxation. 

Title: Efficient Pig Counting in Crowds with Keypoints Tracking and Spatial-aware Temporal Response Filtering
Abstract:  Pig counting is a crucial task for large-scale pig farming, which is usually completed by human visually. But this process is very time-consuming and error-prone. Few studies in literature developed automated pig counting method. Existing methods only focused on pig counting using single image, and its accuracy is challenged by several factors, including pig movements, occlusion and overlapping. Especially, the field of view of a single image is very limited, and could not meet the requirements of pig counting for large pig grouping houses. To that end, we presented a real-time automated pig counting system in crowds using only one monocular fisheye camera with an inspection robot. Our system showed that it produces accurate results surpassing human. Our pipeline began with a novel bottom-up pig detection algorithm to avoid false negatives due to overlapping, occlusion and deformation of pigs. A deep convolution neural network (CNN) is designed to detect keypoints of pig body part and associate the keypoints to identify individual pigs. After that, an efficient on-line tracking method is used to associate pigs across video frames. Finally, a novel spatial-aware temporal response filtering (STRF) method is proposed to predict the counts of pigs, which is effective to suppress false positives caused by pig or camera movements or tracking failures. The whole pipeline has been deployed in an edge computing device, and demonstrated the effectiveness. 

Title: 3D Object Discovery and Modeling Using Single RGB-D Images Containing Multiple Object Instances
Abstract:  Unsupervised object modeling is important in robotics, especially for handling a large set of objects. We present a method for unsupervised 3D object discovery, reconstruction, and localization that exploits multiple instances of an identical object contained in a single RGB-D image. The proposed method does not rely on segmentation, scene knowledge, or user input, and thus is easily scalable. Our method aims to find recurrent patterns in a single RGB-D image by utilizing appearance and geometry of the salient regions. We extract keypoints and match them in pairs based on their descriptors. We then generate triplets of the keypoints matching with each other using several geometric criteria to minimize false matches. The relative poses of the matched triplets are computed and clustered to discover sets of triplet pairs with similar relative poses. Triplets belonging to the same set are likely to belong to the same object and are used to construct an initial object model. Detection of remaining instances with the initial object model using RANSAC allows to further expand and refine the model. The automatically generated object models are both compact and descriptive. We show quantitative and qualitative results on RGB-D images with various objects including some from the Amazon Picking Challenge. We also demonstrate the use of our method in an object picking scenario with a robotic arm. 

Title: Probabilistic Depth Image Registration incorporating Nonvisual Information
Abstract:  In this paper, we derive a probabilistic registration algorithm for object modeling and tracking. In many robotics applications, such as manipulation tasks, nonvisual information about the movement of the object is available, which we will combine with the visual information. Furthermore we do not only consider observations of the object, but we also take space into account which has been observed to not be part of the object. Furthermore we are computing a posterior distribution over the relative alignment and not a point estimate as typically done in for example Iterative Closest Point (ICP). To our knowledge no existing algorithm meets these three conditions and we thus derive a novel registration algorithm in a Bayesian framework. Experimental results suggest that the proposed methods perform favorably in comparison to PCL implementations of feature mapping and ICP, especially if nonvisual information is available. 

Title: Accelerating Safe Reinforcement Learning with Constraint-mismatched Policies
Abstract:  We consider the problem of reinforcement learning when provided with a baseline control policy and a set of constraints that the controlled system must satisfy. The baseline policy might arise from a heuristic, a prior application, a teacher or demonstrator data. The constraints might encode safety, fairness or some application-specific requirements. We want to efficiently use reinforcement learning to adapt the baseline policy to improve performance and satisfy the given constraints when it is applied to the new system. The key challenge is to effectively use the baseline policy (which need not satisfy the current constraints) to aid the learning of a constraint-satisfying policy in the new application. We propose an iterative algorithm for solving this problem. Each iteration is composed of three-steps. The first step performs a policy update to increase the expected reward, the second step performs a projection to minimize the distance between the current policy and the baseline policy, and the last step performs a projection onto the set of policies that satisfy the constraints. This procedure allows the learning process to leverage the baseline policy to achieve faster learning while improving reward performance and satisfying the constraints imposed on the current problem. We analyze the convergence of the proposed algorithm and provide a finite-sample guarantee. Empirical results demonstrate that the algorithm can achieve superior performance, with 10 times fewer constraint violations and around 40% higher reward compared to state-of-the-art methods. 

Title: Conservative Q-Improvement: Reinforcement Learning for an Interpretable Decision-Tree Policy
Abstract:  There is a growing desire in the field of reinforcement learning (and machine learning in general) to move from black-box models toward more "interpretable AI." We improve interpretability of reinforcement learning by increasing the utility of decision tree policies learned via reinforcement learning. These policies consist of a decision tree over the state space, which requires fewer parameters to express than traditional policy representations. Existing methods for creating decision tree policies via reinforcement learning focus on accurately representing an action-value function during training, but this leads to much larger trees than would otherwise be required. To address this shortcoming, we propose a novel algorithm which only increases tree size when the estimated discounted future reward of the overall policy would increase by a sufficient amount. Through evaluation in a simulated environment, we show that its performance is comparable or superior to traditional tree-based approaches and that it yields a more succinct policy. Additionally, we discuss tuning parameters to control the tradeoff between optimizing for smaller tree size or for overall reward. 

Title: Robust and fast generation of top and side grasps for unknown objects
Abstract:  In this work, we present a geometry-based grasping algorithm that is capable of efficiently generating both top and side grasps for unknown objects, using a single view RGB-D camera, and of selecting the most promising one. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on a picking scenario on a real robot platform. Our approach has shown to be more reliable than another recent geometry-based method considered as baseline [7] in terms of grasp stability, by increasing the successful grasp attempts by a factor of six. 

Title: A0C: Alpha Zero in Continuous Action Space
Abstract:  A core novelty of Alpha Zero is the interleaving of tree search and deep learning, which has proven very successful in board games like Chess, Shogi and Go. These games have a discrete action space. However, many real-world reinforcement learning domains have continuous action spaces, for example in robotic control, navigation and self-driving cars. This paper presents the necessary theoretical extensions of Alpha Zero to deal with continuous action space. We also provide some preliminary experiments on the Pendulum swing-up task, empirically showing the feasibility of our approach. Thereby, this work provides a first step towards the application of iterated search and learning in domains with a continuous action space. 

Title: Topology-Aware Non-Rigid Point Cloud Registration
Abstract:  In this paper, we introduce a non-rigid registration pipeline for pairs of unorganized point clouds that may be topologically different. Standard warp field estimation algorithms, even under robust, discontinuity-preserving regularization, tend to produce erratic motion estimates on boundaries associated with `close-to-open' topology changes. We overcome this limitation by exploiting backward motion: in the opposite motion direction, a `close-to-open' event becomes `open-to-close', which is by default handled correctly. At the core of our approach lies a general, topology-agnostic warp field estimation algorithm, similar to those employed in recently introduced dynamic reconstruction systems from RGB-D input. We improve motion estimation on boundaries associated with topology changes in an efficient post-processing phase. Based on both forward and (inverted) backward warp hypotheses, we explicitly detect regions of the deformed geometry that undergo topological changes by means of local deformation criteria and broadly classify them as `contacts' or `separations'. Subsequently, the two motion hypotheses are seamlessly blended on a local basis, according to the type and proximity of detected events. Our method achieves state-of-the-art motion estimation accuracy on the MPI Sintel dataset. Experiments on a custom dataset with topological event annotations demonstrate the effectiveness of our pipeline in estimating motion on event boundaries, as well as promising performance in explicit topological event detection. 

Title: Emergent Real-World Robotic Skills via Unsupervised Off-Policy Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning provides a general framework for learning robotic skills while minimizing engineering effort. However, most reinforcement learning algorithms assume that a well-designed reward function is provided, and learn a single behavior for that single reward function. Such reward functions can be difficult to design in practice. Can we instead develop efficient reinforcement learning methods that acquire diverse skills without any reward function, and then repurpose these skills for downstream tasks? In this paper, we demonstrate that a recently proposed unsupervised skill discovery algorithm can be extended into an efficient off-policy method, making it suitable for performing unsupervised reinforcement learning in the real world. Firstly, we show that our proposed algorithm provides substantial improvement in learning efficiency, making reward-free real-world training feasible. Secondly, we move beyond the simulation environments and evaluate the algorithm on real physical hardware. On quadrupeds, we observe that locomotion skills with diverse gaits and different orientations emerge without any rewards or demonstrations. We also demonstrate that the learned skills can be composed using model predictive control for goal-oriented navigation, without any additional training. 

Title: Tiny-YOLO object detection supplemented with geometrical data
Abstract:  We propose a method of improving detection precision (mAP) with the help of the prior knowledge about the scene geometry: we assume the scene to be a plane with objects placed on it. We focus our attention on autonomous robots, so given the robot's dimensions and the inclination angles of the camera, it is possible to predict the spatial scale for each pixel of the input frame. With slightly modified YOLOv3-tiny we demonstrate that the detection supplemented by the scale channel, further referred as S, outperforms standard RGB-based detection with small computational overhead. 

Title: Set-Point Regulation of Linear Continuous-Time Systems using Neuromorphic Vision Sensors
Abstract:  Recently developed neuromorphic vision sensors have become promising candidates for agile and autonomous robotic applications primarily due to, in particular, their high temporal resolution and low latency. Each pixel of this sensor independently fires an asynchronous stream of "retinal events" once a change in the light field is detected. Existing computer vision algorithms can only process periodic frames and so a new class of algorithms needs to be developed that can efficiently process these events for control tasks. In this paper, we investigate the problem of regulating a continuous-time linear time invariant (LTI) system to a desired point using measurements from a neuromorphic sensor. We present an $H_\infty$ controller that regulates the LTI system to a desired set-point and provide the set of neuromorphic sensor based cameras for the given system that fulfill the regulation task. The effectiveness of our approach is illustrated on an unstable system. 

Title: Learning to Race through Coordinate Descent Bayesian Optimisation
Abstract:  In the automation of many kinds of processes, the observable outcome can often be described as the combined effect of an entire sequence of actions, or controls, applied throughout its execution. In these cases, strategies to optimise control policies for individual stages of the process might not be applicable, and instead the whole policy might have to be optimised at once. On the other hand, the cost to evaluate the policy's performance might also be high, being desirable that a solution can be found with as few interactions as possible with the real system. We consider the problem of optimising control policies to allow a robot to complete a given race track within a minimum amount of time. We assume that the robot has no prior information about the track or its own dynamical model, just an initial valid driving example. Localisation is only applied to monitor the robot and to provide an indication of its position along the track's centre axis. We propose a method for finding a policy that minimises the time per lap while keeping the vehicle on the track using a Bayesian optimisation (BO) approach over a reproducing kernel Hilbert space. We apply an algorithm to search more efficiently over high-dimensional policy-parameter spaces with BO, by iterating over each dimension individually, in a sequential coordinate descent-like scheme. Experiments demonstrate the performance of the algorithm against other methods in a simulated car racing environment. 

Title: Single-Shot Clothing Category Recognition in Free-Configurations with Application to Autonomous Clothes Sorting
Abstract:  This paper proposes a single-shot approach for recognising clothing categories from 2.5D features. We propose two visual features, BSP (B-Spline Patch) and TSD (Topology Spatial Distances) for this task. The local BSP features are encoded by LLC (Locality-constrained Linear Coding) and fused with three different global features. Our visual feature is robust to deformable shapes and our approach is able to recognise the category of unknown clothing in unconstrained and random configurations. We integrated the category recognition pipeline with a stereo vision system, clothing instance detection, and dual-arm manipulators to achieve an autonomous sorting system. To verify the performance of our proposed method, we build a high-resolution RGBD clothing dataset of 50 clothing items of 5 categories sampled in random configurations (a total of 2,100 clothing samples). Experimental results show that our approach is able to reach 83.2\% accuracy while classifying clothing items which were previously unseen during training. This advances beyond the previous state-of-the-art by 36.2\%. Finally, we evaluate the proposed approach in an autonomous robot sorting system, in which the robot recognises a clothing item from an unconstrained pile, grasps it, and sorts it into a box according to its category. Our proposed sorting system achieves reasonable sorting success rates with single-shot perception. 

Title: Bi3D: Stereo Depth Estimation via Binary Classifications
Abstract:  Stereo-based depth estimation is a cornerstone of computer vision, with state-of-the-art methods delivering accurate results in real time. For several applications such as autonomous navigation, however, it may be useful to trade accuracy for lower latency. We present Bi3D, a method that estimates depth via a series of binary classifications. Rather than testing if objects are at a particular depth $D$, as existing stereo methods do, it classifies them as being closer or farther than $D$. This property offers a powerful mechanism to balance accuracy and latency. Given a strict time budget, Bi3D can detect objects closer than a given distance in as little as a few milliseconds, or estimate depth with arbitrarily coarse quantization, with complexity linear with the number of quantization levels. Bi3D can also use the allotted quantization levels to get continuous depth, but in a specific depth range. For standard stereo (i.e., continuous depth on the whole range), our method is close to or on par with state-of-the-art, finely tuned stereo methods. 

Title: High-speed Autonomous Drifting with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Drifting is a complicated task for autonomous vehicle control. Most traditional methods in this area are based on motion equations derived by the understanding of vehicle dynamics, which is difficult to be modeled precisely. We propose a robust drift controller without explicit motion equations, which is based on the latest model-free deep reinforcement learning algorithm soft actor-critic. The drift control problem is formulated as a trajectory following task, where the errorbased state and reward are designed. After being trained on tracks with different levels of difficulty, our controller is capable of making the vehicle drift through various sharp corners quickly and stably in the unseen map. The proposed controller is further shown to have excellent generalization ability, which can directly handle unseen vehicle types with different physical properties, such as mass, tire friction, etc. 

Title: Autonomous Ingress of a UAV through a window using Monocular Vision
Abstract:  The use of autonomous UAVs for surveillance purposes and other reconnaissance tasks is increasingly becoming popular and convenient.These tasks requires the ability to successfully ingress through the rectangular openings or windows of the target structure.In this paper, a method to robustly detect the window in the surrounding using basic image processing techniques and efficient distance measure, is proposed.Furthermore, a navigation scheme which incorporates this detection method for performing navigation task has also been proposed.The whole navigation task is performed and tested in the simulation environment GAZEBO. 

Title: Urban Driving with Multi-Objective Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Autonomous driving is a challenging domain that entails multiple aspects: a vehicle should be able to drive to its destination as fast as possible while avoiding collision, obeying traffic rules and ensuring the comfort of passengers. In this paper, we present a deep learning variant of thresholded lexicographic Q-learning for the task of urban driving. Our multi-objective DQN agent learns to drive on multi-lane roads and intersections, yielding and changing lanes according to traffic rules. We also propose an extension for factored Markov Decision Processes to the DQN architecture that provides auxiliary features for the Q function. This is shown to significantly improve data efficiency. We then show that the learned policy is able to zero-shot transfer to a ring road without sacrificing performance. 

Title: Camera Exposure Control for Robust Robot Vision with Noise-Aware Image Quality Assessment
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a noise-aware exposure control algorithm for robust robot vision. Our method aims to capture the best-exposed image which can boost the performance of various computer vision and robotics tasks. For this purpose, we carefully design an image quality metric which captures complementary quality attributes and ensures light-weight computation. Specifically, our metric consists of a combination of image gradient, entropy, and noise metrics. The synergy of these measures allows preserving sharp edge and rich texture in the image while maintaining a low noise level. Using this novel metric, we propose a real-time and fully automatic exposure and gain control technique based on the Nelder-Mead method. To illustrate the effectiveness of our technique, a large set of experimental results demonstrates higher qualitative and quantitative performances when compared with conventional approaches. 

Title: Edge-Based Recognition of Novel Objects for Robotic Grasping
Abstract:  In this paper, we investigate the problem of grasping novel objects in unstructured environments. To address this problem, consideration of the object geometry, reachability and force closure analysis are required. We propose a framework for grasping unknown objects by localizing contact regions on the contours formed by a set of depth edges in a single view 2D depth image. According to the edge geometric features obtained from analyzing the data of the depth map, the contact regions are determined. Finally,We validate the performance of the approach by applying it to the scenes with both single and multiple objects, using Baxter manipulator. 

Title: ML-based tactile sensor calibration: A universal approach
Abstract:  We study the responses of two tactile sensors, the fingertip sensor from the iCub and the BioTac under different external stimuli. The question of interest is to which degree both sensors i) allow the estimation of force exerted on the sensor and ii) enable the recognition of differing degrees of curvature. Making use of a force controlled linear motor affecting the tactile sensors we acquire several high-quality data sets allowing the study of both sensors under exactly the same conditions. We also examined the structure of the representation of tactile stimuli in the recorded tactile sensor data using t-SNE embeddings. The experiments show that both the iCub and the BioTac excel in different settings. 

Title: Metric Localization using Google Street View
Abstract:  Accurate metrical localization is one of the central challenges in mobile robotics. Many existing methods aim at localizing after building a map with the robot. In this paper, we present a novel approach that instead uses geotagged panoramas from the Google Street View as a source of global positioning. We model the problem of localization as a non-linear least squares estimation in two phases. The first estimates the 3D position of tracked feature points from short monocular camera sequences. The second computes the rigid body transformation between the Street View panoramas and the estimated points. The only input of this approach is a stream of monocular camera images and odometry estimates. We quantified the accuracy of the method by running the approach on a robotic platform in a parking lot by using visual fiducials as ground truth. Additionally, we applied the approach in the context of personal localization in a real urban scenario by using data from a Google Tango tablet. 

Title: MonoPair: Monocular 3D Object Detection Using Pairwise Spatial Relationships
Abstract:  Monocular 3D object detection is an essential component in autonomous driving while challenging to solve, especially for those occluded samples which are only partially visible. Most detectors consider each 3D object as an independent training target, inevitably resulting in a lack of useful information for occluded samples. To this end, we propose a novel method to improve the monocular 3D object detection by considering the relationship of paired samples. This allows us to encode spatial constraints for partially-occluded objects from their adjacent neighbors. Specifically, the proposed detector computes uncertainty-aware predictions for object locations and 3D distances for the adjacent object pairs, which are subsequently jointly optimized by nonlinear least squares. Finally, the one-stage uncertainty-aware prediction structure and the post-optimization module are dedicatedly integrated for ensuring the run-time efficiency. Experiments demonstrate that our method yields the best performance on KITTI 3D detection benchmark, by outperforming state-of-the-art competitors by wide margins, especially for the hard samples. 

Title: Scaling simulation-to-real transfer by learning composable robot skills
Abstract:  We present a novel solution to the problem of simulation-to-real transfer, which builds on recent advances in robot skill decomposition. Rather than focusing on minimizing the simulation-reality gap, we learn a set of diverse policies that are parameterized in a way that makes them easily reusable. This diversity and parameterization of low-level skills allows us to find a transferable policy that is able to use combinations and variations of different skills to solve more complex, high-level tasks. In particular, we first use simulation to jointly learn a policy for a set of low-level skills, and a "skill embedding" parameterization which can be used to compose them. Later, we learn high-level policies which actuate the low-level policies via this skill embedding parameterization. The high-level policies encode how and when to reuse the low-level skills together to achieve specific high-level tasks. Importantly, our method learns to control a real robot in joint-space to achieve these high-level tasks with little or no on-robot time, despite the fact that the low-level policies may not be perfectly transferable from simulation to real, and that the low-level skills were not trained on any examples of high-level tasks. We illustrate the principles of our method using informative simulation experiments. We then verify its usefulness for real robotics problems by learning, transferring, and composing free-space and contact motion skills on a Sawyer robot using only joint-space control. We experiment with several techniques for composing pre-learned skills, and find that our method allows us to use both learning-based approaches and efficient search-based planning to achieve high-level tasks using only pre-learned skills. 

Title: ViTac: Feature Sharing between Vision and Tactile Sensing for Cloth Texture Recognition
Abstract:  Vision and touch are two of the important sensing modalities for humans and they offer complementary information for sensing the environment. Robots could also benefit from such multi-modal sensing ability. In this paper, addressing for the first time (to the best of our knowledge) texture recognition from tactile images and vision, we propose a new fusion method named Deep Maximum Covariance Analysis (DMCA) to learn a joint latent space for sharing features through vision and tactile sensing. The features of camera images and tactile data acquired from a GelSight sensor are learned by deep neural networks. But the learned features are of a high dimensionality and are redundant due to the differences between the two sensing modalities, which deteriorates the perception performance. To address this, the learned features are paired using maximum covariance analysis. Results of the algorithm on a newly collected dataset of paired visual and tactile data relating to cloth textures show that a good recognition performance of greater than 90\% can be achieved by using the proposed DMCA framework. In addition, we find that the perception performance of either vision or tactile sensing can be improved by employing the shared representation space, compared to learning from unimodal data. 

Title: RL-CycleGAN: Reinforcement Learning Aware Simulation-To-Real
Abstract:  Deep neural network based reinforcement learning (RL) can learn appropriate visual representations for complex tasks like vision-based robotic grasping without the need for manually engineering or prior learning a perception system. However, data for RL is collected via running an agent in the desired environment, and for applications like robotics, running a robot in the real world may be extremely costly and time consuming. Simulated training offers an appealing alternative, but ensuring that policies trained in simulation can transfer effectively into the real world requires additional machinery. Simulations may not match reality, and typically bridging the simulation-to-reality gap requires domain knowledge and task-specific engineering. We can automate this process by employing generative models to translate simulated images into realistic ones. However, this sort of translation is typically task-agnostic, in that the translated images may not preserve all features that are relevant to the task. In this paper, we introduce the RL-scene consistency loss for image translation, which ensures that the translation operation is invariant with respect to the Q-values associated with the image. This allows us to learn a task-aware translation. Incorporating this loss into unsupervised domain translation, we obtain RL-CycleGAN, a new approach for simulation-to-real-world transfer for reinforcement learning. In evaluations of RL-CycleGAN on two vision-based robotics grasping tasks, we show that RL-CycleGAN offers a substantial improvement over a number of prior methods for sim-to-real transfer, attaining excellent real-world performance with only a modest number of real-world observations. 

Title: Visual Semantic Planning using Deep Successor Representations
Abstract:  A crucial capability of real-world intelligent agents is their ability to plan a sequence of actions to achieve their goals in the visual world. In this work, we address the problem of visual semantic planning: the task of predicting a sequence of actions from visual observations that transform a dynamic environment from an initial state to a goal state. Doing so entails knowledge about objects and their affordances, as well as actions and their preconditions and effects. We propose learning these through interacting with a visual and dynamic environment. Our proposed solution involves bootstrapping reinforcement learning with imitation learning. To ensure cross task generalization, we develop a deep predictive model based on successor representations. Our experimental results show near optimal results across a wide range of tasks in the challenging THOR environment. 

Title: Learning When to Drive in Intersections by Combining Reinforcement Learning and Model Predictive Control
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a decision making algorithm intended for automated vehicles that negotiate with other possibly non-automated vehicles in intersections. The decision algorithm is separated into two parts: a high-level decision module based on reinforcement learning, and a low-level planning module based on model predictive control. Traffic is simulated with numerous predefined driver behaviors and intentions, and the performance of the proposed decision algorithm was evaluated against another controller. The results show that the proposed decision algorithm yields shorter training episodes and an increased performance in success rate compared to the other controller. 

Title: Real-time Scalable Dense Surfel Mapping
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose a novel dense surfel mapping system that scales well in different environments with only CPU computation. Using a sparse SLAM system to estimate camera poses, the proposed mapping system can fuse intensity images and depth images into a globally consistent model. The system is carefully designed so that it can build from room-scale environments to urban-scale environments using depth images from RGB-D cameras, stereo cameras or even a monocular camera. First, superpixels extracted from both intensity and depth images are used to model surfels in the system. superpixel-based surfels make our method both run-time efficient and memory efficient. Second, surfels are further organized according to the pose graph of the SLAM system to achieve $O(1)$ fusion time regardless of the scale of reconstructed models. Third, a fast map deformation using the optimized pose graph enables the map to achieve global consistency in real-time. The proposed surfel mapping system is compared with other state-of-the-art methods on synthetic datasets. The performances of urban-scale and room-scale reconstruction are demonstrated using the KITTI dataset and autonomous aggressive flights, respectively. The code is available for the benefit of the community. 

Title: Improved Optical Flow for Gesture-based Human-robot Interaction
Abstract:  Gesture interaction is a natural way of communicating with a robot as an alternative to speech. Gesture recognition methods leverage optical flow in order to understand human motion. However, while accurate optical flow estimation (i.e., traditional) methods are costly in terms of runtime, fast estimation (i.e., deep learning) methods' accuracy can be improved. In this paper, we present a pipeline for gesture-based human-robot interaction that uses a novel optical flow estimation method in order to achieve an improved speed-accuracy trade-off. Our optical flow estimation method introduces four improvements to previous deep learning-based methods: strong feature extractors, attention to contours, midway features, and a combination of these three. This results in a better understanding of motion, and a finer representation of silhouettes. In order to evaluate our pipeline, we generated our own dataset, MIBURI, which contains gestures to command a house service robot. In our experiments, we show how our method improves not only optical flow estimation, but also gesture recognition, offering a speed-accuracy trade-off more realistic for practical robot applications. 

Title: DOP: Deep Optimistic Planning with Approximate Value Function Evaluation
Abstract:  Research on reinforcement learning has demonstrated promising results in manifold applications and domains. Still, efficiently learning effective robot behaviors is very difficult, due to unstructured scenarios, high uncertainties, and large state dimensionality (e.g. multi-agent systems or hyper-redundant robots). To alleviate this problem, we present DOP, a deep model-based reinforcement learning algorithm, which exploits action values to both (1) guide the exploration of the state space and (2) plan effective policies. Specifically, we exploit deep neural networks to learn Q-functions that are used to attack the curse of dimensionality during a Monte-Carlo tree search. Our algorithm, in fact, constructs upper confidence bounds on the learned value function to select actions optimistically. We implement and evaluate DOP on different scenarios: (1) a cooperative navigation problem, (2) a fetching task for a 7-DOF KUKA robot, and (3) a human-robot handover with a humanoid robot (both in simulation and real). The obtained results show the effectiveness of DOP in the chosen applications, where action values drive the exploration and reduce the computational demand of the planning process while achieving good performance. 

Title: Counterfactual Reasoning about Intent for Interactive Navigation in Dynamic Environments
Abstract:  Many modern robotics applications require robots to function autonomously in dynamic environments including other decision making agents, such as people or other robots. This calls for fast and scalable interactive motion planning. This requires models that take into consideration the other agent's intended actions in one's own planning. We present a real-time motion planning framework that brings together a few key components including intention inference by reasoning counterfactually about potential motion of the other agents as they work towards different goals. By using a light-weight motion model, we achieve efficient iterative planning for fluid motion when avoiding pedestrians, in parallel with goal inference for longer range movement prediction. This inference framework is coupled with a novel distributed visual tracking method that provides reliable and robust models for the current belief-state of the monitored environment. This combined approach represents a computationally efficient alternative to previously studied policy learning methods that often require significant offline training or calibration and do not yet scale to densely populated environments. We validate this framework with experiments involving multi-robot and human-robot navigation. We further validate the tracker component separately on much larger scale unconstrained pedestrian data sets. 

Title: Learning to See by Moving
Abstract:  The dominant paradigm for feature learning in computer vision relies on training neural networks for the task of object recognition using millions of hand labelled images. Is it possible to learn useful features for a diverse set of visual tasks using any other form of supervision? In biology, living organisms developed the ability of visual perception for the purpose of moving and acting in the world. Drawing inspiration from this observation, in this work we investigate if the awareness of egomotion can be used as a supervisory signal for feature learning. As opposed to the knowledge of class labels, information about egomotion is freely available to mobile agents. We show that given the same number of training images, features learnt using egomotion as supervision compare favourably to features learnt using class-label as supervision on visual tasks of scene recognition, object recognition, visual odometry and keypoint matching. 

Title: Starting engagement detection towards a companion robot using multimodal features
Abstract:  Recognition of intentions is a subconscious cognitive process vital to human communication. This skill enables anticipation and increases the quality of interactions between humans. Within the context of engagement, non-verbal signals are used to communicate the intention of starting the interaction with a partner. In this paper, we investigated methods to detect these signals in order to allow a robot to know when it is about to be addressed. Originality of our approach resides in taking inspiration from social and cognitive sciences to perform our perception task. We investigate meaningful features, i.e. human readable features, and elicit which of these are important for recognizing someone's intention of starting an interaction. Classically, spatial information like the human position and speed, the human-robot distance are used to detect the engagement. Our approach integrates multimodal features gathered using a companion robot equipped with a Kinect. The evaluation on our corpus collected in spontaneous conditions highlights its robustness and validates the use of such a technique in a real environment. Experimental validation shows that multimodal features set gives better precision and recall than using only spatial and speed features. We also demonstrate that 7 selected features are sufficient to provide a good starting engagement detection score. In our last investigation, we show that among our full 99 features set, the space reduction is not a solved task. This result opens new researches perspectives on multimodal engagement detection. 

Title: MANGA: Method Agnostic Neural-policy Generalization and Adaptation
Abstract:  In this paper we target the problem of transferring policies across multiple environments with different dynamics parameters and motor noise variations, by introducing a framework that decouples the processes of policy learning and system identification. Efficiently transferring learned policies to an unknown environment with changes in dynamics configurations in the presence of motor noise is very important for operating robots in the real world, and our work is a novel attempt in that direction. We introduce MANGA: Method Agnostic Neural-policy Generalization and Adaptation, that trains dynamics conditioned policies and efficiently learns to estimate the dynamics parameters of the environment given off-policy state-transition rollouts in the environment. Our scheme is agnostic to the type of training method used - both reinforcement learning (RL) and imitation learning (IL) strategies can be used. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach by experimenting with four different MuJoCo agents and comparing against previously proposed transfer baselines. 

Title: Dense 3D Reconstruction for Visual Tunnel Inspection using Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
Abstract:  Advances in Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) opens venues for application such as tunnel inspection. Owing to its versatility to fly inside the tunnels, it can quickly identify defects and potential problems related to safety. However, long tunnels, especially with repetitive or uniform structures pose a significant problem for UAV navigation. Furthermore, post-processing visual data from the camera mounted on the UAV is required to generate useful information for the inspection task. In this work, we design a UAV with a single rotating camera to accomplish the task. Compared to other platforms, our solution can fit the stringent requirement for tunnel inspection, in terms of battery life, size and weight. While the current state-of-the-art can estimate camera pose and 3D geometry from a sequence of images, they assume large overlap, small rotational motion, and many distinct matching points between images. These assumptions severely limit their effectiveness in tunnel-like scenarios where the camera has erratic or large rotational motion, such as the one mounted on the UAV. This paper presents a novel solution which exploits Structure-from-Motion, Bundle Adjustment, and available geometry priors to robustly estimate camera pose and automatically reconstruct a fully-dense 3D scene using the least possible number of images in various challenging tunnel-like environments. We validate our system with both Virtual Reality application and experimentation with a real dataset. The results demonstrate that the proposed reconstruction along with texture mapping allows for remote navigation and inspection of tunnel-like environments, even those which are inaccessible for humans. 

Title: A Sensorimotor Reinforcement Learning Framework for Physical Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract:  Modeling of physical human-robot collaborations is generally a challenging problem due to the unpredictive nature of human behavior. To address this issue, we present a data-efficient reinforcement learning framework which enables a robot to learn how to collaborate with a human partner. The robot learns the task from its own sensorimotor experiences in an unsupervised manner. The uncertainty of the human actions is modeled using Gaussian processes (GP) to implement action-value functions. Optimal action selection given the uncertain GP model is ensured by Bayesian optimization. We apply the framework to a scenario in which a human and a PR2 robot jointly control the ball position on a plank based on vision and force/torque data. Our experimental results show the suitability of the proposed method in terms of fast and data-efficient model learning, optimal action selection under uncertainties and equal role sharing between the partners. 

Title: Relational Mimic for Visual Adversarial Imitation Learning
Abstract:  In this work, we introduce a new method for imitation learning from video demonstrations. Our method, Relational Mimic (RM), improves on previous visual imitation learning methods by combining generative adversarial networks and relational learning. RM is flexible and can be used in conjunction with other recent advances in generative adversarial imitation learning to better address the need for more robust and sample-efficient approaches. In addition, we introduce a new neural network architecture that improves upon the previous state-of-the-art in reinforcement learning and illustrate how increasing the relational reasoning capabilities of the agent enables the latter to achieve increasingly higher performance in a challenging locomotion task with pixel inputs. Finally, we study the effects and contributions of relational learning in policy evaluation, policy improvement and reward learning through ablation studies. 

Title: Self-Supervised Flow Estimation using Geometric Regularization with Applications to Camera Image and Grid Map Sequences
Abstract:  We present a self-supervised approach to estimate flow in camera image and top-view grid map sequences using fully convolutional neural networks in the domain of automated driving. We extend existing approaches for self-supervised optical flow estimation by adding a regularizer expressing motion consistency assuming a static environment. However, as this assumption is violated for other moving traffic participants we also estimate a mask to scale this regularization. Adding a regularization towards motion consistency improves convergence and flow estimation accuracy. Furthermore, we scale the errors due to spatial flow inconsistency by a mask that we derive from the motion mask. This improves accuracy in regions where the flow drastically changes due to a better separation between static and dynamic environment. We apply our approach to optical flow estimation from camera image sequences, validate on odometry estimation and suggest a method to iteratively increase optical flow estimation accuracy using the generated motion masks. Finally, we provide quantitative and qualitative results based on the KITTI odometry and tracking benchmark for scene flow estimation based on grid map sequences. We show that we can improve accuracy and convergence when applying motion and spatial consistency regularization. 

Title: Nonmyopic Gaussian Process Optimization with Macro-Actions
Abstract:  This paper presents a multi-staged approach to nonmyopic adaptive Gaussian process optimization (GPO) for Bayesian optimization (BO) of unknown, highly complex objective functions that, in contrast to existing nonmyopic adaptive BO algorithms, exploits the notion of macro-actions for scaling up to a further lookahead to match up to a larger available budget. To achieve this, we generalize GP upper confidence bound to a new acquisition function defined w.r.t. a nonmyopic adaptive macro-action policy, which is intractable to be optimized exactly due to an uncountable set of candidate outputs. The contribution of our work here is thus to derive a nonmyopic adaptive epsilon-Bayes-optimal macro-action GPO (epsilon-Macro-GPO) policy. To perform nonmyopic adaptive BO in real time, we then propose an asymptotically optimal anytime variant of our epsilon-Macro-GPO policy with a performance guarantee. We empirically evaluate the performance of our epsilon-Macro-GPO policy and its anytime variant in BO with synthetic and real-world datasets. 

Title: How An Automated Gesture Imitation Game Can Improve Social Interactions With Teenagers With ASD
Abstract:  With the outlook of improving communication and social abilities of people with ASD, we propose to extend the paradigm of robot-based imitation games to ASD teenagers. In this paper, we present an interaction scenario adapted to ASD teenagers, propose a computational architecture using the latest machine learning algorithm Openpose for human pose detection, and present the results of our basic testing of the scenario with human caregivers. These results are preliminary due to the number of session (1) and participants (4). They include a technical assessment of the performance of Openpose, as well as a preliminary user study to confirm our game scenario could elicit the expected response from subjects. 

Title: Real-time 3D Tracking of Articulated Tools for Robotic Surgery
Abstract:  In robotic surgery, tool tracking is important for providing safe tool-tissue interaction and facilitating surgical skills assessment. Despite recent advances in tool tracking, existing approaches are faced with major difficulties in real-time tracking of articulated tools. Most algorithms are tailored for offline processing with pre-recorded videos. In this paper, we propose a real-time 3D tracking method for articulated tools in robotic surgery. The proposed method is based on the CAD model of the tools as well as robot kinematics to generate online part-based templates for efficient 2D matching and 3D pose estimation. A robust verification approach is incorporated to reject outliers in 2D detections, which is then followed by fusing inliers with robot kinematic readings for 3D pose estimation of the tool. The proposed method has been validated with phantom data, as well as ex vivo and in vivo experiments. The results derived clearly demonstrate the performance advantage of the proposed method when compared to the state-of-the-art. 

Title: HVNet: Hybrid Voxel Network for LiDAR Based 3D Object Detection
Abstract:  We present Hybrid Voxel Network (HVNet), a novel one-stage unified network for point cloud based 3D object detection for autonomous driving. Recent studies show that 2D voxelization with per voxel PointNet style feature extractor leads to accurate and efficient detector for large 3D scenes. Since the size of the feature map determines the computation and memory cost, the size of the voxel becomes a parameter that is hard to balance. A smaller voxel size gives a better performance, especially for small objects, but a longer inference time. A larger voxel can cover the same area with a smaller feature map, but fails to capture intricate features and accurate location for smaller objects. We present a Hybrid Voxel network that solves this problem by fusing voxel feature encoder (VFE) of different scales at point-wise level and project into multiple pseudo-image feature maps. We further propose an attentive voxel feature encoding that outperforms plain VFE and a feature fusion pyramid network to aggregate multi-scale information at feature map level. Experiments on the KITTI benchmark show that a single HVNet achieves the best mAP among all existing methods with a real time inference speed of 31Hz. 

Title: Teleoperation System Using Past Image Records Considering Narrow Communication Band
Abstract:  Teleoperation is necessary when the robot is applied to real missions, for example surveillance, search and rescue. We proposed teleoperation system using past image records (SPIR). SPIR virtually generates the bird's-eye view image by overlaying the CG model of the robot at the corresponding current position on the background image which is captured from the camera mounted on the robot at a past time. The problem for SPIR is that the communication bandwidth is often narrow in some teleoperation tasks. In this case, the candidates of background image of SPIR are few and the position of the robot is often delayed. In this study, we propose zoom function for insufficiency of candidates of the background image and additional interpolation lines for the delay of the position data of the robot. To evaluate proposed system, an outdoor experiments are carried out. The outdoor experiment is conducted on a training course of a driving school. 

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning amidst Lifelong Non-Stationarity
Abstract:  As humans, our goals and our environment are persistently changing throughout our lifetime based on our experiences, actions, and internal and external drives. In contrast, typical reinforcement learning problem set-ups consider decision processes that are stationary across episodes. Can we develop reinforcement learning algorithms that can cope with the persistent change in the former, more realistic problem settings? While on-policy algorithms such as policy gradients in principle can be extended to non-stationary settings, the same cannot be said for more efficient off-policy algorithms that replay past experiences when learning. In this work, we formalize this problem setting, and draw upon ideas from the online learning and probabilistic inference literature to derive an off-policy RL algorithm that can reason about and tackle such lifelong non-stationarity. Our method leverages latent variable models to learn a representation of the environment from current and past experiences, and performs off-policy RL with this representation. We further introduce several simulation environments that exhibit lifelong non-stationarity, and empirically find that our approach substantially outperforms approaches that do not reason about environment shift. 

Title: Automatic extrinsic calibration between a camera and a 3D Lidar using 3D point and plane correspondences
Abstract:  This paper proposes an automated method to obtain the extrinsic calibration parameters between a camera and a 3D lidar with as low as 16 beams. We use a checkerboard as a reference to obtain features of interest in both sensor frames. The calibration board centre point and normal vector are automatically extracted from the lidar point cloud by exploiting the geometry of the board. The corresponding features in the camera image are obtained from the camera's extrinsic matrix. We explain the reasons behind selecting these features, and why they are more robust compared to other possibilities. To obtain the optimal extrinsic parameters, we choose a genetic algorithm to address the highly non-linear state space. The process is automated after defining the bounds of the 3D experimental region relative to the lidar, and the true board dimensions. In addition, the camera is assumed to be intrinsically calibrated. Our method requires a minimum of 3 checkerboard poses, and the calibration accuracy is demonstrated by evaluating our algorithm using real world and simulated features. 

Title: EmoRL: Continuous Acoustic Emotion Classification using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Acoustically expressed emotions can make communication with a robot more efficient. Detecting emotions like anger could provide a clue for the robot indicating unsafe/undesired situations. Recently, several deep neural network-based models have been proposed which establish new state-of-the-art results in affective state evaluation. These models typically start processing at the end of each utterance, which not only requires a mechanism to detect the end of an utterance but also makes it difficult to use them in a real-time communication scenario, e.g. human-robot interaction. We propose the EmoRL model that triggers an emotion classification as soon as it gains enough confidence while listening to a person speaking. As a result, we minimize the need for segmenting the audio signal for classification and achieve lower latency as the audio signal is processed incrementally. The method is competitive with the accuracy of a strong baseline model, while allowing much earlier prediction. 

Title: Pragmatic-Pedagogic Value Alignment
Abstract:  As intelligent systems gain autonomy and capability, it becomes vital to ensure that their objectives match those of their human users; this is known as the value-alignment problem. In robotics, value alignment is key to the design of collaborative robots that can integrate into human workflows, successfully inferring and adapting to their users' objectives as they go. We argue that a meaningful solution to value alignment must combine multi-agent decision theory with rich mathematical models of human cognition, enabling robots to tap into people's natural collaborative capabilities. We present a solution to the cooperative inverse reinforcement learning (CIRL) dynamic game based on well-established cognitive models of decision making and theory of mind. The solution captures a key reciprocity relation: the human will not plan her actions in isolation, but rather reason pedagogically about how the robot might learn from them; the robot, in turn, can anticipate this and interpret the human's actions pragmatically. To our knowledge, this work constitutes the first formal analysis of value alignment grounded in empirically validated cognitive models. 

Title: A Fast Randomized Method to Find Homotopy Classes for Socially-Aware Navigation
Abstract:  We introduce and show preliminary results of a fast randomized method that finds a set of K paths lying in distinct homotopy classes. We frame the path planning task as a graph search problem, where the navigation graph is based on a Voronoi diagram. The search is biased by a cost function derived from the social force model that is used to generate and select the paths. We compare our method to Yen's algorithm, and empirically show that our approach is faster to find a subset of homotopy classes. Furthermore our approach computes a set of more diverse paths with respect to the baseline while obtaining a negligible loss in path quality. 

Title: Perceiving and Reasoning About Liquids Using Fully Convolutional Networks
Abstract:  Liquids are an important part of many common manipulation tasks in human environments. If we wish to have robots that can accomplish these types of tasks, they must be able to interact with liquids in an intelligent manner. In this paper, we investigate ways for robots to perceive and reason about liquids. That is, a robot asks the questions What in the visual data stream is liquid? and How can I use that to infer all the potential places where liquid might be? We collected two datasets to evaluate these questions, one using a realistic liquid simulator and another on our robot. We used fully convolutional neural networks to learn to detect and track liquids across pouring sequences. Our results show that these networks are able to perceive and reason about liquids, and that integrating temporal information is important to performing such tasks well. 

Title: GraspNet: A Large-Scale Clustered and Densely Annotated Dataset for Object Grasping
Abstract:  Object grasping is critical for many applications, which is also a challenging computer vision problem. However, for the clustered scene, current researches suffer from the problems of insufficient training data and the lacking of evaluation benchmarks. In this work, we contribute a large-scale grasp pose detection dataset with a unified evaluation system. Our dataset contains 87,040 RGBD images with over 370 million grasp poses. Meanwhile, our evaluation system directly reports whether a grasping is successful or not by analytic computation, which is able to evaluate any kind of grasp poses without exhausted labeling pose ground-truth. We conduct extensive experiments to show that our dataset and evaluation system can align well with real-world experiments. Our dataset, source code and models will be made publicly available. 

Title: Learning to Control Self-Assembling Morphologies: A Study of Generalization via Modularity
Abstract:  Contemporary sensorimotor learning approaches typically start with an existing complex agent (e.g., a robotic arm), which they learn to control. In contrast, this paper investigates a modular co-evolution strategy: a collection of primitive agents learns to dynamically self-assemble into composite bodies while also learning to coordinate their behavior to control these bodies. Each primitive agent consists of a limb with a motor attached at one end. Limbs may choose to link up to form collectives. When a limb initiates a link-up action, and there is another limb nearby, the latter is magnetically connected to the 'parent' limb's motor. This forms a new single agent, which may further link with other agents. In this way, complex morphologies can emerge, controlled by a policy whose architecture is in explicit correspondence with the morphology. We evaluate the performance of these dynamic and modular agents in simulated environments. We demonstrate better generalization to test-time changes both in the environment, as well as in the structure of the agent, compared to static and monolithic baselines. Project video and code are available at https://pathak22.github.io/modular-assemblies/ 

Title: Field Geology with a Wearable Computer: First Results of the Cyborg Astrobiologist System
Abstract:  We present results from the first geological field tests of the `Cyborg Astrobiologist', which is a wearable computer and video camcorder system that we are using to test and train a computer-vision system towards having some of the autonomous decision-making capabilities of a field-geologist. The Cyborg Astrobiologist platform has thus far been used for testing and development of these algorithms and systems: robotic acquisition of quasi-mosaics of images, real-time image segmentation, and real-time determination of interesting points in the image mosaics. The hardware and software systems function reliably, and the computer-vision algorithms are adequate for the first field tests. In addition to the proof-of-concept aspect of these field tests, the main result of these field tests is the enumeration of those issues that we can improve in the future, including: dealing with structural shadow and microtexture, and also, controlling the camera's zoom lens in an intelligent manner. Nonetheless, despite these and other technical inadequacies, this Cyborg Astrobiologist system, consisting of a camera-equipped wearable-computer and its computer-vision algorithms, has demonstrated its ability of finding genuinely interesting points in real-time in the geological scenery, and then gathering more information about these interest points in an automated manner. 

Title: Muscle Excitation Estimation in Biomechanical Simulation Using NAF Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Motor control is a set of time-varying muscle excitations which generate desired motions for a biomechanical system. Muscle excitations cannot be directly measured from live subjects. An alternative approach is to estimate muscle activations using inverse motion-driven simulation. In this article, we propose a deep reinforcement learning method to estimate the muscle excitations in simulated biomechanical systems. Here, we introduce a custom-made reward function which incentivizes faster point-to-point tracking of target motion. Moreover, we deploy two new techniques, namely, episode-based hard update and dual buffer experience replay, to avoid feedback training loops. The proposed method is tested in four simulated 2D and 3D environments with 6 to 24 axial muscles. The results show that the models were able to learn muscle excitations for given motions after nearly 100,000 simulated steps. Moreover, the root mean square error in point-to-point reaching of the target across experiments was less than 1% of the length of the domain of motion. Our reinforcement learning method is far from the conventional dynamic approaches as the muscle control is derived functionally by a set of distributed neurons. This can open paths for neural activity interpretation of this phenomenon. 

Title: Real-time Monocular Visual Odometry for Turbid and Dynamic Underwater Environments
Abstract:  In the context of robotic underwater operations, the visual degradations induced by the medium properties make difficult the exclusive use of cameras for localization purpose. Hence, most localization methods are based on expensive navigational sensors associated with acoustic positioning. On the other hand, visual odometry and visual SLAM have been exhaustively studied for aerial or terrestrial applications, but state-of-the-art algorithms fail underwater. In this paper we tackle the problem of using a simple low-cost camera for underwater localization and propose a new monocular visual odometry method dedicated to the underwater environment. We evaluate different tracking methods and show that optical flow based tracking is more suited to underwater images than classical approaches based on descriptors. We also propose a keyframe-based visual odometry approach highly relying on nonlinear optimization. The proposed algorithm has been assessed on both simulated and real underwater datasets and outperforms state-of-the-art visual SLAM methods under many of the most challenging conditions. The main application of this work is the localization of Remotely Operated Vehicles (ROVs) used for underwater archaeological missions but the developed system can be used in any other applications as long as visual information is available. 

Title: A Comparative Study on Machine Learning Algorithms for the Control of a Wall Following Robot
Abstract:  A comparison of the performance of various machine learning models to predict the direction of a wall following robot is presented in this paper. The models were trained using an open-source dataset that contains 24 ultrasound sensors readings and the corresponding direction for each sample. This dataset was captured using SCITOS G5 mobile robot by placing the sensors on the robot waist. In addition to the full format with 24 sensors per record, the dataset has two simplified formats with 4 and 2 input sensor readings per record. Several control models were proposed previously for this dataset using all three dataset formats. In this paper, two primary research contributions are presented. First, presenting machine learning models with accuracies higher than all previously proposed models for this dataset using all three formats. A perfect solution for the 4 and 2 inputs sensors formats is presented using Decision Tree Classifier by achieving a mean accuracy of 100%. On the other hand, a mean accuracy of 99.82% was achieves using the 24 sensor inputs by employing the Gradient Boost Classifier. Second, presenting a comparative study on the performance of different machine learning and deep learning algorithms on this dataset. Therefore, providing an overall insight on the performance of these algorithms for similar sensor fusion problems. All the models in this paper were evaluated using Monte-Carlo cross-validation. 

Title: Towards Robust Visual Tracking for Unmanned Aerial Vehicle with Tri-Attentional Correlation Filters
Abstract:  Object tracking has been broadly applied in unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) tasks in recent years. However, existing algorithms still face difficulties such as partial occlusion, clutter background, and other challenging visual factors. Inspired by the cutting-edge attention mechanisms, a novel object tracking framework is proposed to leverage multi-level visual attention. Three primary attention, i.e., contextual attention, dimensional attention, and spatiotemporal attention, are integrated into the training and detection stages of correlation filter-based tracking pipeline. Therefore, the proposed tracker is equipped with robust discriminative power against challenging factors while maintaining high operational efficiency in UAV scenarios. Quantitative and qualitative experiments on two well-known benchmarks with 173 challenging UAV video sequences demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework. The proposed tracking algorithm favorably outperforms 12 state-of-the-art methods, yielding 4.8% relative gain in UAVDT and 8.2% relative gain in UAV123@10fps against the baseline tracker while operating at the speed of $\sim$ 28 frames per second. 

Title: Learning from the Hindsight Plan -- Episodic MPC Improvement
Abstract:  Model predictive control (MPC) is a popular control method that has proved effective for robotics, among other fields. MPC performs re-planning at every time step. Re-planning is done with a limited horizon per computational and real-time constraints and often also for robustness to potential model errors. However, the limited horizon leads to suboptimal performance. In this work, we consider the iterative learning setting, where the same task can be repeated several times, and propose a policy improvement scheme for MPC. The main idea is that between executions we can, offline, run MPC with a longer horizon, resulting in a hindsight plan. To bring the next real-world execution closer to the hindsight plan, our approach learns to re-shape the original cost function with the goal of satisfying the following property: short horizon planning (as realistic during real executions) with respect to the shaped cost should result in mimicking the hindsight plan. This effectively consolidates long-term reasoning into the short-horizon planning. We empirically evaluate our approach in contact-rich manipulation tasks both in simulated and real environments, such as peg insertion by a real PR2 robot. 

Title: Audio-Visual Waypoints for Navigation
Abstract:  In audio-visual navigation, an agent intelligently travels through a complex, unmapped 3D environment using both sights and sounds to find a sound source (e.g., a phone ringing in another room). Existing models learn to act at a fixed granularity of agent motion and rely on simple recurrent aggregations of the audio observations. We introduce a reinforcement learning approach to audio-visual navigation with two key novel elements 1) audio-visual waypoints that are dynamically set and learned end-to-end within the navigation policy, and 2) an acoustic memory that provides a structured, spatially grounded record of what the agent has heard as it moves. Both new ideas capitalize on the synergy of audio and visual data for revealing the geometry of an unmapped space. We demonstrate our approach on the challenging Replica environments of real-world 3D scenes. Our model improves the state of the art by a substantial margin, and our experiments reveal that learning the links between sights, sounds, and space is essential for audio-visual navigation. 

Title: AirSim Drone Racing Lab
Abstract:  Autonomous drone racing is a challenging research problem at the intersection of computer vision, planning, state estimation, and control. We introduce AirSim Drone Racing Lab, a simulation framework for enabling fast prototyping of algorithms for autonomy and enabling machine learning research in this domain, with the goal of reducing the time, money, and risks associated with field robotics. Our framework enables generation of racing tracks in multiple photo-realistic environments, orchestration of drone races, comes with a suite of gate assets, allows for multiple sensor modalities (monocular, depth, neuromorphic events, optical flow), different camera models, and benchmarking of planning, control, computer vision, and learning-based algorithms. We used our framework to host a simulation based drone racing competition at NeurIPS 2019. The competition binaries are available at our github repository. 

Title: Making Sense of Vision and Touch: Learning Multimodal Representations for Contact-Rich Tasks
Abstract:  Contact-rich manipulation tasks in unstructured environments often require both haptic and visual feedback. It is non-trivial to manually design a robot controller that combines these modalities which have very different characteristics. While deep reinforcement learning has shown success in learning control policies for high-dimensional inputs, these algorithms are generally intractable to deploy on real robots due to sample complexity. In this work, we use self-supervision to learn a compact and multimodal representation of our sensory inputs, which can then be used to improve the sample efficiency of our policy learning. Evaluating our method on a peg insertion task, we show that it generalizes over varying geometries, configurations, and clearances, while being robust to external perturbations. We also systematically study different self-supervised learning objectives and representation learning architectures. Results are presented in simulation and on a physical robot. 

Title: Reinforcement Learning for the Soccer Dribbling Task
Abstract:  We propose a reinforcement learning solution to the \emph{soccer dribbling task}, a scenario in which a soccer agent has to go from the beginning to the end of a region keeping possession of the ball, as an adversary attempts to gain possession. While the adversary uses a stationary policy, the dribbler learns the best action to take at each decision point. After defining meaningful variables to represent the state space, and high-level macro-actions to incorporate domain knowledge, we describe our application of the reinforcement learning algorithm \emph{Sarsa} with CMAC for function approximation. Our experiments show that, after the training period, the dribbler is able to accomplish its task against a strong adversary around 58% of the time. 

Title: PCAN: 3D Attention Map Learning Using Contextual Information for Point Cloud Based Retrieval
Abstract:  Point cloud based retrieval for place recognition is an emerging problem in vision field. The main challenge is how to find an efficient way to encode the local features into a discriminative global descriptor. In this paper, we propose a Point Contextual Attention Network (PCAN), which can predict the significance of each local point feature based on point context. Our network makes it possible to pay more attention to the task-relevent features when aggregating local features. Experiments on various benchmark datasets show that the proposed network can provide outperformance than current state-of-the-art approaches. 

Title: Where are the Keys? -- Learning Object-Centric Navigation Policies on Semantic Maps with Graph Convolutional Networks
Abstract:  Emerging object-based SLAM algorithms can build a graph representation of an environment comprising nodes for robot poses and object landmarks. However, while this map will contain static objects such as furniture or appliances, many moveable objects (e.g. the car keys, the glasses, or a magazine), are not suitable as landmarks and will not be part of the map due to their non-static nature. We show that Graph Convolutional Networks can learn navigation policies to find such unmapped objects by learning to exploit the hidden probabilistic model that governs where these objects appear in the environment. The learned policies can generalise to object classes unseen during training by using word vectors that express semantic similarity as representations for object nodes in the graph. Furthermore, we show that the policies generalise to unseen environments with only minimal loss of performance. We demonstrate that pre-training the policy network with a proxy task can significantly speed up learning, improving sample efficiency. Code for this paper is available at https://github.com/nikosuenderhauf/graphConvNetsForNavigation. 

Title: Graph-based Proprioceptive Localization Using a Discrete Heading-Length Feature Sequence Matching Approach
Abstract:  Proprioceptive localization refers to a new class of robot egocentric localization methods that do not rely on the perception and recognition of external landmarks. These methods are naturally immune to bad weather, poor lighting conditions, or other extreme environmental conditions that may hinder exteroceptive sensors such as a camera or a laser ranger finder. These methods depend on proprioceptive sensors such as inertial measurement units (IMUs) and/or wheel encoders. Assisted by magnetoreception, the sensors can provide a rudimentary estimation of vehicle trajectory which is used to query a prior known map to obtain location. Named as graph-based proprioceptive localization (GBPL), we provide a low cost fallback solution for localization under challenging environmental conditions. As a robot/vehicle travels, we extract a sequence of heading-length values for straight segments from the trajectory and match the sequence with a pre-processed heading-length graph (HLG) abstracted from the prior known map to localize the robot under a graph-matching approach. Using the information from HLG, our location alignment and verification module compensates for trajectory drift, wheel slip, or tire inflation level. We have implemented our algorithm and tested it in both simulated and physical experiments. The algorithm runs successfully in finding robot location continuously and achieves localization accurate at the level that the prior map allows (less than 10m). 

Title: Co-active Learning to Adapt Humanoid Movement for Manipulation
Abstract:  In this paper we address the problem of robot movement adaptation under various environmental constraints interactively. Motion primitives are generally adopted to generate target motion from demonstrations. However, their generalization capability is weak while facing novel environments. Additionally, traditional motion generation methods do not consider the versatile constraints from various users, tasks, and environments. In this work, we propose a co-active learning framework for learning to adapt robot end-effector's movement for manipulation tasks. It is designed to adapt the original imitation trajectories, which are learned from demonstrations, to novel situations with various constraints. The framework also considers user's feedback towards the adapted trajectories, and it learns to adapt movement through human-in-the-loop interactions. The implemented system generalizes trained motion primitives to various situations with different constraints considering user preferences. Experiments on a humanoid platform validate the effectiveness of our approach. 

Title: BayesOpt: A Library for Bayesian optimization with Robotics Applications
Abstract:  The purpose of this paper is twofold. On one side, we present a general framework for Bayesian optimization and we compare it with some related fields in active learning and Bayesian numerical analysis. On the other hand, Bayesian optimization and related problems (bandits, sequential experimental design) are highly dependent on the surrogate model that is selected. However, there is no clear standard in the literature. Thus, we present a fast and flexible toolbox that allows to test and combine different models and criteria with little effort. It includes most of the state-of-the-art contributions, algorithms and models. Its speed also removes part of the stigma that Bayesian optimization methods are only good for "expensive functions". The software is free and it can be used in many operating systems and computer languages. 

Title: 6-PACK: Category-level 6D Pose Tracker with Anchor-Based Keypoints
Abstract:  We present 6-PACK, a deep learning approach to category-level 6D object pose tracking on RGB-D data. Our method tracks in real-time novel object instances of known object categories such as bowls, laptops, and mugs. 6-PACK learns to compactly represent an object by a handful of 3D keypoints, based on which the interframe motion of an object instance can be estimated through keypoint matching. These keypoints are learned end-to-end without manual supervision in order to be most effective for tracking. Our experiments show that our method substantially outperforms existing methods on the NOCS category-level 6D pose estimation benchmark and supports a physical robot to perform simple vision-based closed-loop manipulation tasks. Our code and video are available at https://sites.google.com/view/6packtracking. 

Title: Measuring robustness of Visual SLAM
Abstract:  Simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) is an essential component of robotic systems. In this work we perform a feasibility study of RGB-D SLAM for the task of indoor robot navigation. Recent visual SLAM methods, e.g. ORBSLAM2 \cite{mur2017orb}, demonstrate really impressive accuracy, but the experiments in the papers are usually conducted on just a few sequences, that makes it difficult to reason about the robustness of the methods. Another problem is that all available RGB-D datasets contain the trajectories with very complex camera motions. In this work we extensively evaluate ORBSLAM2 to better understand the state-of-the-art. First, we conduct experiments on the popular publicly available datasets for RGB-D SLAM across the conventional metrics. We perform statistical analysis of the results and find correlations between the metrics and the attributes of the trajectories. Then, we introduce a new large and diverse HomeRobot dataset where we model the motions of a simple home robot. Our dataset is created using physically-based rendering with realistic lighting and contains the scenes composed by human designers. It includes thousands of sequences, that is two orders of magnitude greater than in previous works. We find that while in many cases the accuracy of SLAM is very good, the robustness is still an issue. 

Title: One-Shot Observation Learning Using Visual Activity Features
Abstract:  Observation learning is the process of learning a task by observing an expert demonstrator. Our principal contribution is a one-shot learning method for robot manipulation tasks in which only a single demonstration is required. The key idea is to encode the demonstration in an activity space defined as part of a previously trained activity classifier. The distance between this encoding and equivalent encodings from trials of a robot performing the same task provides a reward function supporting iterative learning of task completion by the robotic manipulator. We use reinforcement learning for experiments with a simulated robotic manipulator, and stochastic trajectory optimisation for experiments with a real robotic manipulator. We show that the proposed method can be used to learn tasks from a single demonstration under varying viewpoint of observation, object properties, scene background and morphology of the manipulator. Videos of all results, including demonstrations, can be found on: https://tinyurl.com/s2l-stage1 

Title: Semi-Supervised Semantic Mapping through Label Propagation with Semantic Texture Meshes
Abstract:  Scene understanding is an important capability for robots acting in unstructured environments. While most SLAM approaches provide a geometrical representation of the scene, a semantic map is necessary for more complex interactions with the surroundings. Current methods treat the semantic map as part of the geometry which limits scalability and accuracy. We propose to represent the semantic map as a geometrical mesh and a semantic texture coupled at independent resolution. The key idea is that in many environments the geometry can be greatly simplified without loosing fidelity, while semantic information can be stored at a higher resolution, independent of the mesh. We construct a mesh from depth sensors to represent the scene geometry and fuse information into the semantic texture from segmentations of individual RGB views of the scene. Making the semantics persistent in a global mesh enables us to enforce temporal and spatial consistency of the individual view predictions. For this, we propose an efficient method of establishing consensus between individual segmentations by iteratively retraining semantic segmentation with the information stored within the map and using the retrained segmentation to re-fuse the semantics. We demonstrate the accuracy and scalability of our approach by reconstructing semantic maps of scenes from NYUv2 and a scene spanning large buildings. 

Title: Sim2Real View Invariant Visual Servoing by Recurrent Control
Abstract:  Humans are remarkably proficient at controlling their limbs and tools from a wide range of viewpoints and angles, even in the presence of optical distortions. In robotics, this ability is referred to as visual servoing: moving a tool or end-point to a desired location using primarily visual feedback. In this paper, we study how viewpoint-invariant visual servoing skills can be learned automatically in a robotic manipulation scenario. To this end, we train a deep recurrent controller that can automatically determine which actions move the end-point of a robotic arm to a desired object. The problem that must be solved by this controller is fundamentally ambiguous: under severe variation in viewpoint, it may be impossible to determine the actions in a single feedforward operation. Instead, our visual servoing system must use its memory of past movements to understand how the actions affect the robot motion from the current viewpoint, correcting mistakes and gradually moving closer to the target. This ability is in stark contrast to most visual servoing methods, which either assume known dynamics or require a calibration phase. We show how we can learn this recurrent controller using simulated data and a reinforcement learning objective. We then describe how the resulting model can be transferred to a real-world robot by disentangling perception from control and only adapting the visual layers. The adapted model can servo to previously unseen objects from novel viewpoints on a real-world Kuka IIWA robotic arm. For supplementary videos, see: https://fsadeghi.github.io/Sim2RealViewInvariantServo 

Title: Context Model for Pedestrian Intention Prediction using Factored Latent-Dynamic Conditional Random Fields
Abstract:  Smooth handling of pedestrian interactions is a key requirement for Autonomous Vehicles (AV) and Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS). Such systems call for early and accurate prediction of a pedestrian's crossing/not-crossing behaviour in front of the vehicle. Existing approaches to pedestrian behaviour prediction make use of pedestrian motion, his/her location in a scene and static context variables such as traffic lights, zebra crossings etc. We stress on the necessity of early prediction for smooth operation of such systems. We introduce the influence of vehicle interactions on pedestrian intention for this purpose. In this paper, we show a discernible advance in prediction time aided by the inclusion of such vehicle interaction context. We apply our methods to two different datasets, one in-house collected - NTU dataset and another public real-life benchmark - JAAD dataset. We also propose a generic graphical model Factored Latent-Dynamic Conditional Random Fields (FLDCRF) for single and multi-label sequence prediction as well as joint interaction modeling tasks. FLDCRF outperforms Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks across the datasets ($\sim$100 sequences per dataset) over identical time-series features. While the existing best system predicts pedestrian stopping behaviour with 70\% accuracy 0.38 seconds before the actual events, our system achieves such accuracy at least 0.9 seconds on an average before the actual events across datasets. 

Title: A Benchmark for Point Clouds Registration Algorithms
Abstract:  Point clouds registration is a fundamental step of many point clouds processing pipelines; however, most algorithms are tested on data collected ad-hoc and not shared with the research community. These data often cover only a very limited set of use cases; therefore, the results cannot be generalised. Public datasets proposed until now, taken individually, cover only a few kinds of environment and mostly a single sensor. For these reasons, we developed a benchmark, for localization and mapping applications, using multiple publicly available datasets. In this way, we have been able to cover many kinds of environments and many kinds of sensor that can produce point clouds. Furthermore, the ground truth has been thoroughly inspected and evaluated to ensure its quality. For some of the datasets, the accuracy of the ground truth system was not reported by the original authors, therefore we estimated it with our own novel method, based on an iterative registration algorithm. Along with the data, we provide a broad set of registration problems, chosen to cover different types of initial misalignment, various degrees of overlap, and different kinds of registration problems. Lastly, we propose a metric to measure the performances of registration algorithms: it combines the commonly used rotation and translation errors together, to allow an objective comparison of the alignments. This work aims at encouraging authors to use a public and shared benchmark, instead than data collected ad-hoc, to ensure objectivity and repeatability, two fundamental characteristics in any scientific field. 

Title: SeDAR - Semantic Detection and Ranging: Humans can localise without LiDAR, can robots?
Abstract:  How does a person work out their location using a floorplan? It is probably safe to say that we do not explicitly measure depths to every visible surface and try to match them against different pose estimates in the floorplan. And yet, this is exactly how most robotic scan-matching algorithms operate. Similarly, we do not extrude the 2D geometry present in the floorplan into 3D and try to align it to the real-world. And yet, this is how most vision-based approaches localise. Humans do the exact opposite. Instead of depth, we use high level semantic cues. Instead of extruding the floorplan up into the third dimension, we collapse the 3D world into a 2D representation. Evidence of this is that many of the floorplans we use in everyday life are not accurate, opting instead for high levels of discriminative landmarks. In this work, we use this insight to present a global localisation approach that relies solely on the semantic labels present in the floorplan and extracted from RGB images. While our approach is able to use range measurements if available, we demonstrate that they are unnecessary as we can achieve results comparable to state-of-the-art without them. 

Title: Learning Social Affordance for Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract:  In this paper, we present an approach for robot learning of social affordance from human activity videos. We consider the problem in the context of human-robot interaction: Our approach learns structural representations of human-human (and human-object-human) interactions, describing how body-parts of each agent move with respect to each other and what spatial relations they should maintain to complete each sub-event (i.e., sub-goal). This enables the robot to infer its own movement in reaction to the human body motion, allowing it to naturally replicate such interactions. We introduce the representation of social affordance and propose a generative model for its weakly supervised learning from human demonstration videos. Our approach discovers critical steps (i.e., latent sub-events) in an interaction and the typical motion associated with them, learning what body-parts should be involved and how. The experimental results demonstrate that our Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) based learning algorithm automatically discovers semantically meaningful interactive affordance from RGB-D videos, which allows us to generate appropriate full body motion for an agent. 

Title: Underwater Multi-Robot Convoying using Visual Tracking by Detection
Abstract:  We present a robust multi-robot convoying approach that relies on visual detection of the leading agent, thus enabling target following in unstructured 3-D environments. Our method is based on the idea of tracking-by-detection, which interleaves efficient model-based object detection with temporal filtering of image-based bounding box estimation. This approach has the important advantage of mitigating tracking drift (i.e. drifting away from the target object), which is a common symptom of model-free trackers and is detrimental to sustained convoying in practice. To illustrate our solution, we collected extensive footage of an underwater robot in ocean settings, and hand-annotated its location in each frame. Based on this dataset, we present an empirical comparison of multiple tracker variants, including the use of several convolutional neural networks, both with and without recurrent connections, as well as frequency-based model-free trackers. We also demonstrate the practicality of this tracking-by-detection strategy in real-world scenarios by successfully controlling a legged underwater robot in five degrees of freedom to follow another robot's independent motion. 

Title: Reinforcement Learning with Non-uniform State Representations for Adaptive Search
Abstract:  Efficient spatial exploration is a key aspect of search and rescue. In this paper, we present a search algorithm that generates efficient trajectories that optimize the rate at which probability mass is covered by a searcher. This should allow an autonomous vehicle find one or more lost targets as rapidly as possible. We do this by performing non-uniform sampling of the search region. The path generated minimizes the expected time to locate the missing target by visiting high probability regions using non-myopic path generation based on reinforcement learning. We model the target probability distribution using a classic mixture of Gaussians model with means and mixture coefficients tuned according to the location and time of sightings of the lost target. Key features of our search algorithm are the ability to employ a very general non-deterministic action model and the ability to generate action plans for any new probability distribution using the parameters learned on other similar looking distributions. One of the key contributions of this paper is the use of non-uniform state aggregation for policy search in the context of robotics. 

Title: SLTR: Simultaneous Localization of Target and Reflector in NLOS Condition Using Beacons
Abstract:  When the direct view between the target and the observer is not available, due to obstacles with non-zero sizes, the observation is received after reflection from a reflector, this is the indirect view or Non-Line-Of Sight condition. Localization of a target in NLOS condition still one of the open problems yet. In this paper, we address this problem by localizing the reflector and the target simultaneously using a single stationary receiver, and a determined number of beacons, in which their placements are also analyzed in an unknown map. The work is done in mirror space, when the receiver is a camera, and the reflector is a planar mirror. Furthermore, the distance from the observer to the target is estimated by size constancy concept, and the angle of coming signal is the same as the orientation of the camera, with respect to a global frame. The results show the validation of the proposed work and the simulation results are matched with the theoretical results. 

Title: A probabilistic data-driven model for planar pushing
Abstract:  This paper presents a data-driven approach to model planar pushing interaction to predict both the most likely outcome of a push and its expected variability. The learned models rely on a variation of Gaussian processes with input-dependent noise called Variational Heteroscedastic Gaussian processes (VHGP) that capture the mean and variance of a stochastic function. We show that we can learn accurate models that outperform analytical models after less than 100 samples and saturate in performance with less than 1000 samples. We validate the results against a collected dataset of repeated trajectories, and use the learned models to study questions such as the nature of the variability in pushing, and the validity of the quasi-static assumption. 

Title: Learning Constraints from Demonstrations
Abstract:  We extend the learning from demonstration paradigm by providing a method for learning unknown constraints shared across tasks, using demonstrations of the tasks, their cost functions, and knowledge of the system dynamics and control constraints. Given safe demonstrations, our method uses hit-and-run sampling to obtain lower cost, and thus unsafe, trajectories. Both safe and unsafe trajectories are used to obtain a consistent representation of the unsafe set via solving an integer program. Our method generalizes across system dynamics and learns a guaranteed subset of the constraint. We also provide theoretical analysis on what subset of the constraint can be learnable from safe demonstrations. We demonstrate our method on linear and nonlinear system dynamics, show that it can be modified to work with suboptimal demonstrations, and that it can also be used to learn constraints in a feature space. 

Title: DFVS: Deep Flow Guided Scene Agnostic Image Based Visual Servoing
Abstract:  Existing deep learning based visual servoing approaches regress the relative camera pose between a pair of images. Therefore, they require a huge amount of training data and sometimes fine-tuning for adaptation to a novel scene. Furthermore, current approaches do not consider underlying geometry of the scene and rely on direct estimation of camera pose. Thus, inaccuracies in prediction of the camera pose, especially for distant goals, lead to a degradation in the servoing performance. In this paper, we propose a two-fold solution: (i) We consider optical flow as our visual features, which are predicted using a deep neural network. (ii) These flow features are then systematically integrated with depth estimates provided by another neural network using interaction matrix. We further present an extensive benchmark in a photo-realistic 3D simulation across diverse scenes to study the convergence and generalisation of visual servoing approaches. We show convergence for over 3m and 40 degrees while maintaining precise positioning of under 2cm and 1 degree on our challenging benchmark where the existing approaches that are unable to converge for majority of scenarios for over 1.5m and 20 degrees. Furthermore, we also evaluate our approach for a real scenario on an aerial robot. Our approach generalizes to novel scenarios producing precise and robust servoing performance for 6 degrees of freedom positioning tasks with even large camera transformations without any retraining or fine-tuning. 

Title: Modelling Generalized Forces with Reinforcement Learning for Sim-to-Real Transfer
Abstract:  Learning robotic control policies in the real world gives rise to challenges in data efficiency, safety, and controlling the initial condition of the system. On the other hand, simulations are a useful alternative as they provide an abundant source of data without the restrictions of the real world. Unfortunately, simulations often fail to accurately model complex real-world phenomena. Traditional system identification techniques are limited in expressiveness by the analytical model parameters, and usually are not sufficient to capture such phenomena. In this paper we propose a general framework for improving the analytical model by optimizing state dependent generalized forces. State dependent generalized forces are expressive enough to model constraints in the equations of motion, while maintaining a clear physical meaning and intuition. We use reinforcement learning to efficiently optimize the mapping from states to generalized forces over a discounted infinite horizon. We show that using only minutes of real world data improves the sim-to-real control policy transfer. We demonstrate the feasibility of our approach by validating it on a nonprehensile manipulation task on the Sawyer robot. 

Title: Multi-Task Domain Adaptation for Deep Learning of Instance Grasping from Simulation
Abstract:  Learning-based approaches to robotic manipulation are limited by the scalability of data collection and accessibility of labels. In this paper, we present a multi-task domain adaptation framework for instance grasping in cluttered scenes by utilizing simulated robot experiments. Our neural network takes monocular RGB images and the instance segmentation mask of a specified target object as inputs, and predicts the probability of successfully grasping the specified object for each candidate motor command. The proposed transfer learning framework trains a model for instance grasping in simulation and uses a domain-adversarial loss to transfer the trained model to real robots using indiscriminate grasping data, which is available both in simulation and the real world. We evaluate our model in real-world robot experiments, comparing it with alternative model architectures as well as an indiscriminate grasping baseline. 

Title: A 8 bits Pipeline Analog to Digital Converter Design for High Speed Camera Application
Abstract:  - This paper describes a pipeline analog-to-digital converter is implemented for high speed camera. In the pipeline ADC design, prime factor is designing operational amplifier with high gain so ADC have been high speed. The other advantage of pipeline is simple on concept, easy to implement in layout and have flexibility to increase speed. We made design and simulation using Mentor Graphics Software with 0.6 \mu m CMOS technology with a total power dissipation of 75.47 mW. Circuit techniques used include a precise comparator, operational amplifier and clock management. A switched capacitor is used to sample and multiplying at each stage. Simulation a worst case DNL and INL of 0.75 LSB. The design operates at 5 V dc. The ADC achieves a SNDR of 44.86 dB. keywords: pipeline, switched capacitor, clock management 

Title: PASS3D: Precise and Accelerated Semantic Segmentation for 3D Point Cloud
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose PASS3D to achieve point-wise semantic segmentation for 3D point cloud. Our framework combines the efficiency of traditional geometric methods with robustness of deep learning methods, consisting of two stages: At stage-1, our accelerated cluster proposal algorithm will generate refined cluster proposals by segmenting point clouds without ground, capable of generating less redundant proposals with higher recall in an extremely short time; stage-2 we will amplify and further process these proposals by a neural network to estimate semantic label for each point and meanwhile propose a novel data augmentation method to enhance the network's recognition capability for all categories especially for non-rigid objects. Evaluated on KITTI raw dataset, PASS3D stands out against the state-of-the-art on some results, making itself competent to 3D perception in autonomous driving system. Our source code will be open-sourced. A video demonstration is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cukEqDuP_Qw. 

Title: Real-time clustering and multi-target tracking using event-based sensors
Abstract:  Clustering is crucial for many computer vision applications such as robust tracking, object detection and segmentation. This work presents a real-time clustering technique that takes advantage of the unique properties of event-based vision sensors. Since event-based sensors trigger events only when the intensity changes, the data is sparse, with low redundancy. Thus, our approach redefines the well-known mean-shift clustering method using asynchronous events instead of conventional frames. The potential of our approach is demonstrated in a multi-target tracking application using Kalman filters to smooth the trajectories. We evaluated our method on an existing dataset with patterns of different shapes and speeds, and a new dataset that we collected. The sensor was attached to the Baxter robot in an eye-in-hand setup monitoring real-world objects in an action manipulation task. Clustering accuracy achieved an F-measure of 0.95, reducing the computational cost by 88% compared to the frame-based method. The average error for tracking was 2.5 pixels and the clustering achieved a consistent number of clusters along time. 

Title: The Aqualoc Dataset: Towards Real-Time Underwater Localization from a Visual-Inertial-Pressure Acquisition System
Abstract:  This paper presents a new underwater dataset acquired from a visual-inertial-pressure acquisition system and meant to be used to benchmark visual odometry, visual SLAM and multi-sensors SLAM solutions. The dataset is publicly available and contains ground-truth trajectories for evaluation. 

Title: Deep Lagrangian Networks: Using Physics as Model Prior for Deep Learning
Abstract:  Deep learning has achieved astonishing results on many tasks with large amounts of data and generalization within the proximity of training data. For many important real-world applications, these requirements are unfeasible and additional prior knowledge on the task domain is required to overcome the resulting problems. In particular, learning physics models for model-based control requires robust extrapolation from fewer samples - often collected online in real-time - and model errors may lead to drastic damages of the system. Directly incorporating physical insight has enabled us to obtain a novel deep model learning approach that extrapolates well while requiring fewer samples. As a first example, we propose Deep Lagrangian Networks (DeLaN) as a deep network structure upon which Lagrangian Mechanics have been imposed. DeLaN can learn the equations of motion of a mechanical system (i.e., system dynamics) with a deep network efficiently while ensuring physical plausibility. The resulting DeLaN network performs very well at robot tracking control. The proposed method did not only outperform previous model learning approaches at learning speed but exhibits substantially improved and more robust extrapolation to novel trajectories and learns online in real-time 

Title: Extending Multi-Object Tracking systems to better exploit appearance and 3D information
Abstract:  Tracking multiple objects in real time is essential for a variety of real-world applications, with self-driving industry being at the foremost. This work involves exploiting temporally varying appearance and motion information for tracking. Siamese networks have recently become highly successful at appearance based single object tracking and Recurrent Neural Networks have started dominating both motion and appearance based tracking. Our work focuses on combining Siamese networks and RNNs to exploit appearance and motion information respectively to build a joint system capable of real time multi-object tracking. We further explore heuristics based constraints for tracking in the Birds Eye View Space for efficiently exploiting 3D information as a constrained optimization problem for track prediction. 

Title: Self-Supervised 3D Keypoint Learning for Ego-motion Estimation
Abstract:  Generating reliable illumination and viewpoint invariant keypoints is critical for feature-based SLAM and SfM. State-of-the-art learning-based methods often rely on generating training samples by employing homography adaptation to create 2D synthetic views. While such approaches trivially solve data association between views, they cannot effectively learn from real illumination and non-planar 3D scenes. In this work, we propose a fully self-supervised approach towards learning depth-aware keypoints \textit{purely} from unlabeled videos by incorporating a differentiable pose estimation module that jointly optimizes the keypoints and their depths in a Structure-from-Motion setting. We introduce 3D Multi-View Adaptation, a technique that exploits the temporal context in videos to self-supervise keypoint detection and matching in an end-to-end differentiable manner. Finally, we show how a fully self-supervised keypoint detection and description network can be trivially incorporated as a front-end into a state-of-the-art visual odometry framework that is robust and accurate. 

Title: Scheduled Intrinsic Drive: A Hierarchical Take on Intrinsically Motivated Exploration
Abstract:  Exploration in sparse reward reinforcement learning remains an open challenge. Many state-of-the-art methods use intrinsic motivation to complement the sparse extrinsic reward signal, giving the agent more opportunities to receive feedback during exploration. Commonly these signals are added as bonus rewards, which results in a mixture policy that neither conducts exploration nor task fulfillment resolutely. In this paper, we instead learn separate intrinsic and extrinsic task policies and schedule between these different drives to accelerate exploration and stabilize learning. Moreover, we introduce a new type of intrinsic reward denoted as successor feature control (SFC), which is general and not task-specific. It takes into account statistics over complete trajectories and thus differs from previous methods that only use local information to evaluate intrinsic motivation. We evaluate our proposed scheduled intrinsic drive (SID) agent using three different environments with pure visual inputs: VizDoom, DeepMind Lab and DeepMind Control Suite. The results show a substantially improved exploration efficiency with SFC and the hierarchical usage of the intrinsic drives. A video of our experimental results can be found at https://youtu.be/b0MbY3lUlEI. 

Title: Bayesian Relational Memory for Semantic Visual Navigation
Abstract:  We introduce a new memory architecture, Bayesian Relational Memory (BRM), to improve the generalization ability for semantic visual navigation agents in unseen environments, where an agent is given a semantic target to navigate towards. BRM takes the form of a probabilistic relation graph over semantic entities (e.g., room types), which allows (1) capturing the layout prior from training environments, i.e., prior knowledge, (2) estimating posterior layout at test time, i.e., memory update, and (3) efficient planning for navigation, altogether. We develop a BRM agent consisting of a BRM module for producing sub-goals and a goal-conditioned locomotion module for control. When testing in unseen environments, the BRM agent outperforms baselines that do not explicitly utilize the probabilistic relational memory structure 

Title: {\epsilon}-BMC: A Bayesian Ensemble Approach to Epsilon-Greedy Exploration in Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Resolving the exploration-exploitation trade-off remains a fundamental problem in the design and implementation of reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms. In this paper, we focus on model-free RL using the epsilon-greedy exploration policy, which despite its simplicity, remains one of the most frequently used forms of exploration. However, a key limitation of this policy is the specification of $\varepsilon$. In this paper, we provide a novel Bayesian perspective of $\varepsilon$ as a measure of the uniformity of the Q-value function. We introduce a closed-form Bayesian model update based on Bayesian model combination (BMC), based on this new perspective, which allows us to adapt $\varepsilon$ using experiences from the environment in constant time with monotone convergence guarantees. We demonstrate that our proposed algorithm, $\varepsilon$-\texttt{BMC}, efficiently balances exploration and exploitation on different problems, performing comparably or outperforming the best tuned fixed annealing schedules and an alternative data-dependent $\varepsilon$ adaptation scheme proposed in the literature. 

Title: AU-AIR: A Multi-modal Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Dataset for Low Altitude Traffic Surveillance
Abstract:  Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) with mounted cameras have the advantage of capturing aerial (bird-view) images. The availability of aerial visual data and the recent advances in object detection algorithms led the computer vision community to focus on object detection tasks on aerial images. As a result of this, several aerial datasets have been introduced, including visual data with object annotations. UAVs are used solely as flying-cameras in these datasets, discarding different data types regarding the flight (e.g., time, location, internal sensors). In this work, we propose a multi-purpose aerial dataset (AU-AIR) that has multi-modal sensor data (i.e., visual, time, location, altitude, IMU, velocity) collected in real-world outdoor environments. The AU-AIR dataset includes meta-data for extracted frames (i.e., bounding box annotations for traffic-related object category) from recorded RGB videos. Moreover, we emphasize the differences between natural and aerial images in the context of object detection task. For this end, we train and test mobile object detectors (including YOLOv3-Tiny and MobileNetv2-SSDLite) on the AU-AIR dataset, which are applicable for real-time object detection using on-board computers with UAVs. Since our dataset has diversity in recorded data types, it contributes to filling the gap between computer vision and robotics. The dataset is available at https://bozcani.github.io/auairdataset. 

Title: Jointly Learnable Behavior and Trajectory Planning for Self-Driving Vehicles
Abstract:  The motion planners used in self-driving vehicles need to generate trajectories that are safe, comfortable, and obey the traffic rules. This is usually achieved by two modules: behavior planner, which handles high-level decisions and produces a coarse trajectory, and trajectory planner that generates a smooth, feasible trajectory for the duration of the planning horizon. These planners, however, are typically developed separately, and changes in the behavior planner might affect the trajectory planner in unexpected ways. Furthermore, the final trajectory outputted by the trajectory planner might differ significantly from the one generated by the behavior planner, as they do not share the same objective. In this paper, we propose a jointly learnable behavior and trajectory planner. Unlike most existing learnable motion planners that address either only behavior planning, or use an uninterpretable neural network to represent the entire logic from sensors to driving commands, our approach features an interpretable cost function on top of perception, prediction and vehicle dynamics, and a joint learning algorithm that learns a shared cost function employed by our behavior and trajectory components. Experiments on real-world self-driving data demonstrate that jointly learned planner performs significantly better in terms of both similarity to human driving and other safety metrics, compared to baselines that do not adopt joint behavior and trajectory learning. 

Title: RegNet: Multimodal Sensor Registration Using Deep Neural Networks
Abstract:  In this paper, we present RegNet, the first deep convolutional neural network (CNN) to infer a 6 degrees of freedom (DOF) extrinsic calibration between multimodal sensors, exemplified using a scanning LiDAR and a monocular camera. Compared to existing approaches, RegNet casts all three conventional calibration steps (feature extraction, feature matching and global regression) into a single real-time capable CNN. Our method does not require any human interaction and bridges the gap between classical offline and target-less online calibration approaches as it provides both a stable initial estimation as well as a continuous online correction of the extrinsic parameters. During training we randomly decalibrate our system in order to train RegNet to infer the correspondence between projected depth measurements and RGB image and finally regress the extrinsic calibration. Additionally, with an iterative execution of multiple CNNs, that are trained on different magnitudes of decalibration, our approach compares favorably to state-of-the-art methods in terms of a mean calibration error of 0.28 degrees for the rotational and 6 cm for the translation components even for large decalibrations up to 1.5 m and 20 degrees. 

Title: Zero-Shot Reinforcement Learning with Deep Attention Convolutional Neural Networks
Abstract:  Simulation-to-simulation and simulation-to-real world transfer of neural network models have been a difficult problem. To close the reality gap, prior methods to simulation-to-real world transfer focused on domain adaptation, decoupling perception and dynamics and solving each problem separately, and randomization of agent parameters and environment conditions to expose the learning agent to a variety of conditions. While these methods provide acceptable performance, the computational complexity required to capture a large variation of parameters for comprehensive scenarios on a given task such as autonomous driving or robotic manipulation is high. Our key contribution is to theoretically prove and empirically demonstrate that a deep attention convolutional neural network (DACNN) with specific visual sensor configuration performs as well as training on a dataset with high domain and parameter variation at lower computational complexity. Specifically, the attention network weights are learned through policy optimization to focus on local dependencies that lead to optimal actions, and does not require tuning in real-world for generalization. Our new architecture adapts perception with respect to the control objective, resulting in zero-shot learning without pre-training a perception network. To measure the impact of our new deep network architecture on domain adaptation, we consider autonomous driving as a use case. We perform an extensive set of experiments in simulation-to-simulation and simulation-to-real scenarios to compare our approach to several baselines including the current state-of-art models. 

Title: Time manipulation technique for speeding up reinforcement learning in simulations
Abstract:  A technique for speeding up reinforcement learning algorithms by using time manipulation is proposed. It is applicable to failure-avoidance control problems running in a computer simulation. Turning the time of the simulation backwards on failure events is shown to speed up the learning by 260% and improve the state space exploration by 12% on the cart-pole balancing task, compared to the conventional Q-learning and Actor-Critic algorithms. 

Title: GRIP++: Enhanced Graph-based Interaction-aware Trajectory Prediction for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Despite the advancement in the technology of autonomous driving cars, the safety of a self-driving car is still a challenging problem that has not been well studied. Motion prediction is one of the core functions of an autonomous driving car. Previously, we propose a novel scheme called GRIP which is designed to predict trajectories for traffic agents around an autonomous car efficiently. GRIP uses a graph to represent the interactions of close objects, applies several graph convolutional blocks to extract features, and subsequently uses an encoder-decoder long short-term memory (LSTM) model to make predictions. Even though our experimental results show that GRIP improves the prediction accuracy of the state-of-the-art solution by 30%, GRIP still has some limitations. GRIP uses a fixed graph to describe the relationships between different traffic agents and hence may suffer some performance degradations when it is being used in urban traffic scenarios. Hence, in this paper, we describe an improved scheme called GRIP++ where we use both fixed and dynamic graphs for trajectory predictions of different types of traffic agents. Such an improvement can help autonomous driving cars avoid many traffic accidents. Our evaluations using a recently released urban traffic dataset, namely ApolloScape showed that GRIP++ achieves better prediction accuracy than state-of-the-art schemes. GRIP++ ranked #1 on the leaderboard of the ApolloScape trajectory competition in October 2019. In addition, GRIP++ runs 21.7 times faster than a state-of-the-art scheme, CS-LSTM. 

Title: Information Theoretic Model Predictive Q-Learning
Abstract:  Model-free Reinforcement Learning (RL) works well when experience can be collected cheaply and model-based RL is effective when system dynamics can be modeled accurately. However, both assumptions can be violated in real world problems such as robotics, where querying the system can be expensive and real-world dynamics can be difficult to model. In contrast to RL, Model Predictive Control (MPC) algorithms use a simulator to optimize a simple policy class online, constructing a closed-loop controller that can effectively contend with real-world dynamics. MPC performance is usually limited by factors such as model bias and the limited horizon of optimization. In this work, we present a novel theoretical connection between information theoretic MPC and entropy regularized RL and develop a Q-learning algorithm that can leverage biased models. We validate the proposed algorithm on sim-to-sim control tasks to demonstrate the improvements over optimal control and reinforcement learning from scratch. Our approach paves the way for deploying reinforcement learning algorithms on real systems in a systematic manner. 

Title: Learning Image-Conditioned Dynamics Models for Control of Under-actuated Legged Millirobots
Abstract:  Millirobots are a promising robotic platform for many applications due to their small size and low manufacturing costs. Legged millirobots, in particular, can provide increased mobility in complex environments and improved scaling of obstacles. However, controlling these small, highly dynamic, and underactuated legged systems is difficult. Hand-engineered controllers can sometimes control these legged millirobots, but they have difficulties with dynamic maneuvers and complex terrains. We present an approach for controlling a real-world legged millirobot that is based on learned neural network models. Using less than 17 minutes of data, our method can learn a predictive model of the robot's dynamics that can enable effective gaits to be synthesized on the fly for following user-specified waypoints on a given terrain. Furthermore, by leveraging expressive, high-capacity neural network models, our approach allows for these predictions to be directly conditioned on camera images, endowing the robot with the ability to predict how different terrains might affect its dynamics. This enables sample-efficient and effective learning for locomotion of a dynamic legged millirobot on various terrains, including gravel, turf, carpet, and styrofoam. Experiment videos can be found at https://sites.google.com/view/imageconddyn 

Title: Binary Quadratic Programing for Online Tracking of Hundreds of People in Extremely Crowded Scenes
Abstract:  Multi-object tracking has been studied for decades. However, when it comes to tracking pedestrians in extremely crowded scenes, we are limited to only few works. This is an important problem which gives rise to several challenges. Pre-trained object detectors fail to localize targets in crowded sequences. This consequently limits the use of data-association based multi-target tracking methods which rely on the outcome of an object detector. Additionally, the small apparent target size makes it challenging to extract features to discriminate targets from their surroundings. Finally, the large number of targets greatly increases computational complexity which in turn makes it hard to extend existing multi-target tracking approaches to high-density crowd scenarios. In this paper, we propose a tracker that addresses the aforementioned problems and is capable of tracking hundreds of people efficiently. We formulate online crowd tracking as Binary Quadratic Programing. Our formulation employs target's individual information in the form of appearance and motion as well as contextual cues in the form of neighborhood motion, spatial proximity and grouping constraints, and solves detection and data association simultaneously. In order to solve the proposed quadratic optimization efficiently, where state-of art commercial quadratic programing solvers fail to find the answer in a reasonable amount of time, we propose to use the most recent version of the Modified Frank Wolfe algorithm, which takes advantage of SWAP-steps to speed up the optimization. We show that the proposed formulation can track hundreds of targets efficiently and improves state-of-art results by significant margins on eleven challenging high density crowd sequences. 

Title: Modeling Survival in model-based Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Although recent model-free reinforcement learning algorithms have been shown to be capable of mastering complicated decision-making tasks, the sample complexity of these methods has remained a hurdle to utilizing them in many real-world applications. In this regard, model-based reinforcement learning proposes some remedies. Yet, inherently, model-based methods are more computationally expensive and susceptible to sub-optimality. One reason is that model-generated data are always less accurate than real data, and this often leads to inaccurate transition and reward function models. With the aim to mitigate this problem, this work presents the notion of survival by discussing cases in which the agent's goal is to survive and its analogy to maximizing the expected rewards. To that end, a substitute model for the reward function approximator is introduced that learns to avoid terminal states rather than to maximize accumulated rewards from safe states. Focusing on terminal states, as a small fraction of state-space, reduces the training effort drastically. Next, a model-based reinforcement learning method is proposed (Survive) to train an agent to avoid dangerous states through a safety map model built upon temporal credit assignment in the vicinity of terminal states. Finally, the performance of the presented algorithm is investigated, along with a comparison between the proposed and current methods. 

Title: Robust, Occlusion-aware Pose Estimation for Objects Grasped by Adaptive Hands
Abstract:  Many manipulation tasks, such as placement or within-hand manipulation, require the object's pose relative to a robot hand. The task is difficult when the hand significantly occludes the object. It is especially hard for adaptive hands, for which it is not easy to detect the finger's configuration. In addition, RGB-only approaches face issues with texture-less objects or when the hand and the object look similar. This paper presents a depth-based framework, which aims for robust pose estimation and short response times. The approach detects the adaptive hand's state via efficient parallel search given the highest overlap between the hand's model and the point cloud. The hand's point cloud is pruned and robust global registration is performed to generate object pose hypotheses, which are clustered. False hypotheses are pruned via physical reasoning. The remaining poses' quality is evaluated given agreement with observed data. Extensive evaluation on synthetic and real data demonstrates the accuracy and computational efficiency of the framework when applied on challenging, highly-occluded scenarios for different object types. An ablation study identifies how the framework's components help in performance. This work also provides a dataset for in-hand 6D object pose estimation. Code and dataset are available at: https://github.com/wenbowen123/icra20-hand-object-pose 

Title: Stopping Rules for Bag-of-Words Image Search and Its Application in Appearance-Based Localization
Abstract:  We propose a technique to improve the search efficiency of the bag-of-words (BoW) method for image retrieval. We introduce a notion of difficulty for the image matching problems and propose methods that reduce the amount of computations required for the feature vector-quantization task in BoW by exploiting the fact that easier queries need less computational resources. Measuring the difficulty of a query and stopping the search accordingly is formulated as a stopping problem. We introduce stopping rules that terminate the image search depending on the difficulty of each query, thereby significantly reducing the computational cost. Our experimental results show the effectiveness of our approach when it is applied to appearance-based localization problem. 

Title: Virtual-to-Real: Learning to Control in Visual Semantic Segmentation
Abstract:  Collecting training data from the physical world is usually time-consuming and even dangerous for fragile robots, and thus, recent advances in robot learning advocate the use of simulators as the training platform. Unfortunately, the reality gap between synthetic and real visual data prohibits direct migration of the models trained in virtual worlds to the real world. This paper proposes a modular architecture for tackling the virtual-to-real problem. The proposed architecture separates the learning model into a perception module and a control policy module, and uses semantic image segmentation as the meta representation for relating these two modules. The perception module translates the perceived RGB image to semantic image segmentation. The control policy module is implemented as a deep reinforcement learning agent, which performs actions based on the translated image segmentation. Our architecture is evaluated in an obstacle avoidance task and a target following task. Experimental results show that our architecture significantly outperforms all of the baseline methods in both virtual and real environments, and demonstrates a faster learning curve than them. We also present a detailed analysis for a variety of variant configurations, and validate the transferability of our modular architecture. 

Title: Embodiment dictates learnability in neural controllers
Abstract:  Catastrophic forgetting continues to severely restrict the learnability of controllers suitable for multiple task environments. Efforts to combat catastrophic forgetting reported in the literature to date have focused on how control systems can be updated more rapidly, hastening their adjustment from good initial settings to new environments, or more circumspectly, suppressing their ability to overfit to any one environment. When using robots, the environment includes the robot's own body, its shape and material properties, and how its actuators and sensors are distributed along its mechanical structure. Here we demonstrate for the first time how one such design decision (sensor placement) can alter the landscape of the loss function itself, either expanding or shrinking the weight manifolds containing suitable controllers for each individual task, thus increasing or decreasing their probability of overlap across tasks, and thus reducing or inducing the potential for catastrophic forgetting. 

Title: DPOD: 6D Pose Object Detector and Refiner
Abstract:  In this paper we present a novel deep learning method for 3D object detection and 6D pose estimation from RGB images. Our method, named DPOD (Dense Pose Object Detector), estimates dense multi-class 2D-3D correspondence maps between an input image and available 3D models. Given the correspondences, a 6DoF pose is computed via PnP and RANSAC. An additional RGB pose refinement of the initial pose estimates is performed using a custom deep learning-based refinement scheme. Our results and comparison to a vast number of related works demonstrate that a large number of correspondences is beneficial for obtaining high-quality 6D poses both before and after refinement. Unlike other methods that mainly use real data for training and do not train on synthetic renderings, we perform evaluation on both synthetic and real training data demonstrating superior results before and after refinement when compared to all recent detectors. While being precise, the presented approach is still real-time capable. 

Title: SuPer Deep: A Surgical Perception Framework for Robotic Tissue Manipulation using Deep Learning for Feature Extraction
Abstract:  Robotic automation in surgery requires precise tracking of surgical tools and mapping of deformable tissue. Previous works on surgical perception frameworks require significant effort in developing features for surgical tool and tissue tracking. In this work, we overcome the challenge by exploiting deep learning methods for surgical perception. We integrated deep neural networks, capable of efficient feature extraction, into the tissue reconstruction and instrument pose estimation processes. By leveraging transfer learning, the deep learning based approach requires minimal training data and reduced feature engineering efforts to fully perceive a surgical scene. The framework was tested on three publicly available datasets, which use the da Vinci Surgical System, for comprehensive analysis. Experimental results show that our framework achieves state-of-the-art tracking performance in a surgical environment by utilizing deep learning for feature extraction. 

Title: INFER: INtermediate representations for FuturE pRediction
Abstract:  In urban driving scenarios, forecasting future trajectories of surrounding vehicles is of paramount importance. While several approaches for the problem have been proposed, the best-performing ones tend to require extremely detailed input representations (eg. image sequences). But, such methods do not generalize to datasets they have not been trained on. We propose intermediate representations that are particularly well-suited for future prediction. As opposed to using texture (color) information, we rely on semantics and train an autoregressive model to accurately predict future trajectories of traffic participants (vehicles) (see fig. above). We demonstrate that using semantics provides a significant boost over techniques that operate over raw pixel intensities/disparities. Uncharacteristic of state-of-the-art approaches, our representations and models generalize to completely different datasets, collected across several cities, and also across countries where people drive on opposite sides of the road (left-handed vs right-handed driving). Additionally, we demonstrate an application of our approach in multi-object tracking (data association). To foster further research in transferrable representations and ensure reproducibility, we release all our code and data. 

Title: Random Forests versus Neural Networks - What's Best for Camera Localization?
Abstract:  This work addresses the task of camera localization in a known 3D scene given a single input RGB image. State-of-the-art approaches accomplish this in two steps: firstly, regressing for every pixel in the image its 3D scene coordinate and subsequently, using these coordinates to estimate the final 6D camera pose via RANSAC. To solve the first step, Random Forests (RFs) are typically used. On the other hand, Neural Networks (NNs) reign in many dense regression tasks, but are not test-time efficient. We ask the question: which of the two is best for camera localization? To address this, we make two method contributions: (1) a test-time efficient NN architecture which we term a ForestNet that is derived and initialized from a RF, and (2) a new fully-differentiable robust averaging technique for regression ensembles which can be trained end-to-end with a NN. Our experimental findings show that for scene coordinate regression, traditional NN architectures are superior to test-time efficient RFs and ForestNets, however, this does not translate to final 6D camera pose accuracy where RFs and ForestNets perform slightly better. To summarize, our best method, a ForestNet with a robust average, which has an equivalent fast and lightweight RF, improves over the state-of-the-art for camera localization on the 7-Scenes dataset. While this work focuses on scene coordinate regression for camera localization, our innovations may also be applied to other continuous regression tasks. 

Title: Probabilistically Safe Policy Transfer
Abstract:  Although learning-based methods have great potential for robotics, one concern is that a robot that updates its parameters might cause large amounts of damage before it learns the optimal policy. We formalize the idea of safe learning in a probabilistic sense by defining an optimization problem: we desire to maximize the expected return while keeping the expected damage below a given safety limit. We study this optimization for the case of a robot manipulator with safety-based torque limits. We would like to ensure that the damage constraint is maintained at every step of the optimization and not just at convergence. To achieve this aim, we introduce a novel method which predicts how modifying the torque limit, as well as how updating the policy parameters, might affect the robot's safety. We show through a number of experiments that our approach allows the robot to improve its performance while ensuring that the expected damage constraint is not violated during the learning process. 

Title: Teaching Cameras to Feel: Estimating Tactile Physical Properties of Surfaces From Images
Abstract:  The connection between visual input and tactile sensing is critical for object manipulation tasks such as grasping and pushing. In this work, we introduce the challenging task of estimating a set of tactile physical properties from visual information. We aim to build a model that learns the complex mapping between visual information and tactile physical properties. We construct a first of its kind image-tactile dataset with over 400 multiview image sequences and the corresponding tactile properties. A total of fifteen tactile physical properties across categories including friction, compliance, adhesion, texture, and thermal conductance are measured and then estimated by our models. We develop a cross-modal framework comprised of an adversarial objective and a novel visuo-tactile joint classification loss. Additionally, we develop a neural architecture search framework capable of selecting optimal combinations of viewing angles for estimating a given physical property. 

Title: Model-Based Learning of Turbulent Flows using a Mobile Robot
Abstract:  We consider the problem of model-based learning of turbulent flows using mobile robots. Specifically, we use empirical data to improve on numerical solutions obtained from Reynolds-Averaged Navier Stokes (RANS) models. RANS models are computationally efficient but rely on assumptions that require experimental validation. Here we construct statistical models of the flow properties using Gaussian processes (GPs) and rely on the numerical solutions to inform their mean. Utilizing Bayesian inference, we incorporate measurements of the time-averaged velocity and turbulent intensity into these GPs. We account for model ambiguity and parameter uncertainty, via Bayesian model selection, and for measurement noise by systematically incorporating it in the GPs. To collect the measurements, we control a custom-built mobile robot through a sequence of waypoints that maximize the information content of the measurements. The end result is a posterior distribution of the flow field that better approximates the real flow and quantifies the uncertainty in its properties. We experimentally demonstrate a considerable improvement in the prediction of these properties compared to numerical solutions. 

Title: A Mobile Robot Hand-Arm Teleoperation System by Vision and IMU
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a multimodal mobile teleoperation system that consists of a novel vision-based hand pose regression network (Transteleop) and an IMU-based arm tracking method. Transteleop observes the human hand through a low-cost depth camera and generates not only joint angles but also depth images of paired robot hand poses through an image-to-image translation process. A keypoint-based reconstruction loss explores the resemblance in appearance and anatomy between human and robotic hands and enriches the local features of reconstructed images. A wearable camera holder enables simultaneous hand-arm control and facilitates the mobility of the whole teleoperation system. Network evaluation results on a test dataset and a variety of complex manipulation tasks that go beyond simple pick-and-place operations show the efficiency and stability of our multimodal teleoperation system. 

Title: Bayesian Policy Optimization for Model Uncertainty
Abstract:  Addressing uncertainty is critical for autonomous systems to robustly adapt to the real world. We formulate the problem of model uncertainty as a continuous Bayes-Adaptive Markov Decision Process (BAMDP), where an agent maintains a posterior distribution over latent model parameters given a history of observations and maximizes its expected long-term reward with respect to this belief distribution. Our algorithm, Bayesian Policy Optimization, builds on recent policy optimization algorithms to learn a universal policy that navigates the exploration-exploitation trade-off to maximize the Bayesian value function. To address challenges from discretizing the continuous latent parameter space, we propose a new policy network architecture that encodes the belief distribution independently from the observable state. Our method significantly outperforms algorithms that address model uncertainty without explicitly reasoning about belief distributions and is competitive with state-of-the-art Partially Observable Markov Decision Process solvers. 

Title: Tensor Decompositions for Modeling Inverse Dynamics
Abstract:  Modeling inverse dynamics is crucial for accurate feedforward robot control. The model computes the necessary joint torques, to perform a desired movement. The highly non-linear inverse function of the dynamical system can be approximated using regression techniques. We propose as regression method a tensor decomposition model that exploits the inherent three-way interaction of positions x velocities x accelerations. Most work in tensor factorization has addressed the decomposition of dense tensors. In this paper, we build upon the decomposition of sparse tensors, with only small amounts of nonzero entries. The decomposition of sparse tensors has successfully been used in relational learning, e.g., the modeling of large knowledge graphs. Recently, the approach has been extended to multi-class classification with discrete input variables. Representing the data in high dimensional sparse tensors enables the approximation of complex highly non-linear functions. In this paper we show how the decomposition of sparse tensors can be applied to regression problems. Furthermore, we extend the method to continuous inputs, by learning a mapping from the continuous inputs to the latent representations of the tensor decomposition, using basis functions. We evaluate our proposed model on a dataset with trajectories from a seven degrees of freedom SARCOS robot arm. Our experimental results show superior performance of the proposed functional tensor model, compared to challenging state-of-the art methods. 

Title: HoME: a Household Multimodal Environment
Abstract:  We introduce HoME: a Household Multimodal Environment for artificial agents to learn from vision, audio, semantics, physics, and interaction with objects and other agents, all within a realistic context. HoME integrates over 45,000 diverse 3D house layouts based on the SUNCG dataset, a scale which may facilitate learning, generalization, and transfer. HoME is an open-source, OpenAI Gym-compatible platform extensible to tasks in reinforcement learning, language grounding, sound-based navigation, robotics, multi-agent learning, and more. We hope HoME better enables artificial agents to learn as humans do: in an interactive, multimodal, and richly contextualized setting. 

Title: 3D Object Recognition with Ensemble Learning --- A Study of Point Cloud-Based Deep Learning Models
Abstract:  In this study, we present an analysis of model-based ensemble learning for 3D point-cloud object classification and detection. An ensemble of multiple model instances is known to outperform a single model instance, but there is little study of the topic of ensemble learning for 3D point clouds. First, an ensemble of multiple model instances trained on the same part of the $\textit{ModelNet40}$ dataset was tested for seven deep learning, point cloud-based classification algorithms: $\textit{PointNet}$, $\textit{PointNet++}$, $\textit{SO-Net}$, $\textit{KCNet}$, $\textit{DeepSets}$, $\textit{DGCNN}$, and $\textit{PointCNN}$. Second, the ensemble of different architectures was tested. Results of our experiments show that the tested ensemble learning methods improve over state-of-the-art on the $\textit{ModelNet40}$ dataset, from $92.65\%$ to $93.64\%$ for the ensemble of single architecture instances, $94.03\%$ for two different architectures, and $94.15\%$ for five different architectures. We show that the ensemble of two models with different architectures can be as effective as the ensemble of 10 models with the same architecture. Third, a study on classic bagging i.e. with different subsets used for training multiple model instances) was tested and sources of ensemble accuracy growth were investigated for best-performing architecture, i.e. $\textit{SO-Net}$. We also investigate the ensemble learning of $\textit{Frustum PointNet}$ approach in the task of 3D object detection, increasing the average precision of 3D box detection on the $\textit{KITTI}$ dataset from $63.1\%$ to $66.5\%$ using only three model instances. We measure the inference time of all 3D classification architectures on a $\textit{Nvidia Jetson TX2}$, a common embedded computer for mobile robots, to allude to the use of these models in real-life applications. 

Title: Goal-Conditioned End-to-End Visuomotor Control for Versatile Skill Primitives
Abstract:  Visuomotor control (VMC) is an effective means of achieving basic manipulation tasks such as pushing or pick-and-place from raw images. Conditioning VMC on desired goal states is a promising way of achieving versatile skill primitives. However, common conditioning schemes either rely on task-specific fine tuning (e.g. using meta-learning) or on sampling approaches using a forward model of scene dynamics i.e. model-predictive control, leaving deployability and planning horizon severely limited. In this paper we propose a conditioning scheme which avoids these pitfalls by learning the controller and its conditioning in an end-to-end manner. Our model predicts complex action sequences based directly on a dynamic image representation of the robot motion and the distance to a given target observation. In contrast to related works, this enables our approach to efficiently perform complex pushing and pick-and-place tasks from raw image observations without predefined control primitives. We report significant improvements in task success over a representative model-predictive controller and also demonstrate our model's generalisation capabilities in challenging, unseen tasks handling unfamiliar objects. 

Title: Seamless Integration and Coordination of Cognitive Skills in Humanoid Robots: A Deep Learning Approach
Abstract:  This study investigates how adequate coordination among the different cognitive processes of a humanoid robot can be developed through end-to-end learning of direct perception of visuomotor stream. We propose a deep dynamic neural network model built on a dynamic vision network, a motor generation network, and a higher-level network. The proposed model was designed to process and to integrate direct perception of dynamic visuomotor patterns in a hierarchical model characterized by different spatial and temporal constraints imposed on each level. We conducted synthetic robotic experiments in which a robot learned to read human's intention through observing the gestures and then to generate the corresponding goal-directed actions. Results verify that the proposed model is able to learn the tutored skills and to generalize them to novel situations. The model showed synergic coordination of perception, action and decision making, and it integrated and coordinated a set of cognitive skills including visual perception, intention reading, attention switching, working memory, action preparation and execution in a seamless manner. Analysis reveals that coherent internal representations emerged at each level of the hierarchy. Higher-level representation reflecting actional intention developed by means of continuous integration of the lower-level visuo-proprioceptive stream. 

Title: Multi-timescale Nexting in a Reinforcement Learning Robot
Abstract:  The term "nexting" has been used by psychologists to refer to the propensity of people and many other animals to continually predict what will happen next in an immediate, local, and personal sense. The ability to "next" constitutes a basic kind of awareness and knowledge of one's environment. In this paper we present results with a robot that learns to next in real time, predicting thousands of features of the world's state, including all sensory inputs, at timescales from 0.1 to 8 seconds. This was achieved by treating each state feature as a reward-like target and applying temporal-difference methods to learn a corresponding value function with a discount rate corresponding to the timescale. We show that two thousand predictions, each dependent on six thousand state features, can be learned and updated online at better than 10Hz on a laptop computer, using the standard TD(lambda) algorithm with linear function approximation. We show that this approach is efficient enough to be practical, with most of the learning complete within 30 minutes. We also show that a single tile-coded feature representation suffices to accurately predict many different signals at a significant range of timescales. Finally, we show that the accuracy of our learned predictions compares favorably with the optimal off-line solution. 

Title: Robotic Grasp Manipulation Using Evolutionary Computing and Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Intelligent Object manipulation for grasping is a challenging problem for robots. Unlike robots, humans almost immediately know how to manipulate objects for grasping due to learning over the years. A grown woman can grasp objects more skilfully than a child because of learning skills developed over years, the absence of which in the present day robotic grasping compels it to perform well below the human object grasping benchmarks. In this paper we have taken up the challenge of developing learning based pose estimation by decomposing the problem into both position and orientation learning. More specifically, for grasp position estimation, we explore three different methods - a Genetic Algorithm (GA) based optimization method to minimize error between calculated image points and predicted end-effector (EE) position, a regression based method (RM) where collected data points of robot EE and image points have been regressed with a linear model, a PseudoInverse (PI) model which has been formulated in the form of a mapping matrix with robot EE position and image points for several observations. Further for grasp orientation learning, we develop a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) model which we name as Grasp Deep Q-Network (GDQN) and benchmarked our results with Modified VGG16 (MVGG16). Rigorous experimentations show that due to inherent capability of producing very high-quality solutions for optimization problems and search problems, GA based predictor performs much better than the other two models for position estimation. For orientation learning results indicate that off policy learning through GDQN outperforms MVGG16, since GDQN architecture is specially made suitable for the reinforcement learning. Based on our proposed architectures and algorithms, the robot is capable of grasping all rigid body objects having regular shapes. 

Title: Learning and Acting in Peripersonal Space: Moving, Reaching, and Grasping
Abstract:  The young infant explores its body, its sensorimotor system, and the immediately accessible parts of its environment, over the course of a few months creating a model of peripersonal space useful for reaching and grasping objects around it. Drawing on constraints from the empirical literature on infant behavior, we present a preliminary computational model of this learning process, implemented and evaluated on a physical robot. The learning agent explores the relationship between the configuration space of the arm, sensing joint angles through proprioception, and its visual perceptions of the hand and grippers. The resulting knowledge is represented as the peripersonal space (PPS) graph, where nodes represent states of the arm, edges represent safe movements, and paths represent safe trajectories from one pose to another. In our model, the learning process is driven by intrinsic motivation. When repeatedly performing an action, the agent learns the typical result, but also detects unusual outcomes, and is motivated to learn how to make those unusual results reliable. Arm motions typically leave the static background unchanged, but occasionally bump an object, changing its static position. The reach action is learned as a reliable way to bump and move an object in the environment. Similarly, once a reliable reach action is learned, it typically makes a quasi-static change in the environment, moving an object from one static position to another. The unusual outcome is that the object is accidentally grasped (thanks to the innate Palmar reflex), and thereafter moves dynamically with the hand. Learning to make grasps reliable is more complex than for reaches, but we demonstrate significant progress. Our current results are steps toward autonomous sensorimotor learning of motion, reaching, and grasping in peripersonal space, based on unguided exploration and intrinsic motivation. 

Title: Multiple chaotic central pattern generators with learning for legged locomotion and malfunction compensation
Abstract:  An originally chaotic system can be controlled into various periodic dynamics. When it is implemented into a legged robot's locomotion control as a central pattern generator (CPG), sophisticated gait patterns arise so that the robot can perform various walking behaviors. However, such a single chaotic CPG controller has difficulties dealing with leg malfunction. Specifically, in the scenarios presented here, its movement permanently deviates from the desired trajectory. To address this problem, we extend the single chaotic CPG to multiple CPGs with learning. The learning mechanism is based on a simulated annealing algorithm. In a normal situation, the CPGs synchronize and their dynamics are identical. With leg malfunction or disability, the CPGs lose synchronization leading to independent dynamics. In this case, the learning mechanism is applied to automatically adjust the remaining legs' oscillation frequencies so that the robot adapts its locomotion to deal with the malfunction. As a consequence, the trajectory produced by the multiple chaotic CPGs resembles the original trajectory far better than the one produced by only a single CPG. The performance of the system is evaluated first in a physical simulation of a quadruped as well as a hexapod robot and finally in a real six-legged walking machine called AMOSII. The experimental results presented here reveal that using multiple CPGs with learning is an effective approach for adaptive locomotion generation where, for instance, different body parts have to perform independent movements for malfunction compensation. 

Title: Team Applied Robotics: A closer look at our robotic picking system
Abstract:  This paper describes the vision based robotic picking system that was developed by our team, Team Applied Robotics, for the Amazon Picking Challenge 2016. This competition challenged teams to develop a robotic system that is able to pick a large variety of products from a shelve or a tote. We discuss the design considerations and our strategy, the high resolution 3D vision system, the use of a combination of texture and shape-based object detection algorithms, the robot path planning and object manipulators that were developed. 

Title: Distinguishing Refracted Features using Light Field Cameras with Application to Structure from Motion
Abstract:  Robots must reliably interact with refractive objects in many applications; however, refractive objects can cause many robotic vision algorithms to become unreliable or even fail, particularly feature-based matching applications, such as structure-from-motion. We propose a method to distinguish between refracted and Lambertian image features using a light field camera. Specifically, we propose to use textural cross-correlation to characterise apparent feature motion in a single light field, and compare this motion to its Lambertian equivalent based on 4D light field geometry. Our refracted feature distinguisher has a 34.3% higher rate of detection compared to state-of-the-art for light fields captured with large baselines relative to the refractive object. Our method also applies to light field cameras with much smaller baselines than previously considered, yielding up to 2 times better detection for 2D-refractive objects, such as a sphere, and up to 8 times better for 1D-refractive objects, such as a cylinder. For structure from motion, we demonstrate that rejecting refracted features using our distinguisher yields up to 42.4% lower reprojection error, and lower failure rate when the robot is approaching refractive objects. Our method lead to more robust robot vision in the presence of refractive objects. 

Title: A Hierarchical Network for Diverse Trajectory Proposals
Abstract:  Autonomous explorative robots frequently encounter scenarios where multiple future trajectories can be pursued. Often these are cases with multiple paths around an obstacle or trajectory options towards various frontiers. Humans in such situations can inherently perceive and reason about the surrounding environment to identify several possibilities of either manoeuvring around the obstacles or moving towards various frontiers. In this work, we propose a 2 stage Convolutional Neural Network architecture which mimics such an ability to map the perceived surroundings to multiple trajectories that a robot can choose to traverse. The first stage is a Trajectory Proposal Network which suggests diverse regions in the environment which can be occupied in the future. The second stage is a Trajectory Sampling network which provides a finegrained trajectory over the regions proposed by Trajectory Proposal Network. We evaluate our framework in diverse and complicated real life settings. For the outdoor case, we use the KITTI dataset and our own outdoor driving dataset. In the indoor setting, we use an autonomous drone to navigate various scenarios and also a ground robot which can explore the environment using the trajectories proposed by our framework. Our experiments suggest that the framework is able to develop a semantic understanding of the obstacles, open regions and identify diverse trajectories that a robot can traverse. Our comparisons portray the performance gain of the proposed architecture over a diverse set of methods against which it is compared. 

Title: CINet: A Learning Based Approach to Incremental Context Modeling in Robots
Abstract:  There have been several attempts at modeling context in robots. However, either these attempts assume a fixed number of contexts or use a rule-based approach to determine when to increment the number of contexts. In this paper, we pose the task of when to increment as a learning problem, which we solve using a Recurrent Neural Network. We show that the network successfully (with 98\% testing accuracy) learns to predict when to increment, and demonstrate, in a scene modeling problem (where the correct number of contexts is not known), that the robot increments the number of contexts in an expected manner (i.e., the entropy of the system is reduced). We also present how the incremental model can be used for various scene reasoning tasks. 

Title: UnrealROX: An eXtremely Photorealistic Virtual Reality Environment for Robotics Simulations and Synthetic Data Generation
Abstract:  Data-driven algorithms have surpassed traditional techniques in almost every aspect in robotic vision problems. Such algorithms need vast amounts of quality data to be able to work properly after their training process. Gathering and annotating that sheer amount of data in the real world is a time-consuming and error-prone task. Those problems limit scale and quality. Synthetic data generation has become increasingly popular since it is faster to generate and automatic to annotate. However, most of the current datasets and environments lack realism, interactions, and details from the real world. UnrealROX is an environment built over Unreal Engine 4 which aims to reduce that reality gap by leveraging hyperrealistic indoor scenes that are explored by robot agents which also interact with objects in a visually realistic manner in that simulated world. Photorealistic scenes and robots are rendered by Unreal Engine into a virtual reality headset which captures gaze so that a human operator can move the robot and use controllers for the robotic hands; scene information is dumped on a per-frame basis so that it can be reproduced offline to generate raw data and ground truth annotations. This virtual reality environment enables robotic vision researchers to generate realistic and visually plausible data with full ground truth for a wide variety of problems such as class and instance semantic segmentation, object detection, depth estimation, visual grasping, and navigation. 

Title: Sim2Real for Peg-Hole Insertion with Eye-in-Hand Camera
Abstract:  Even though the peg-hole insertion is one of the well-studied problems in robotics, it still remains a challenge for robots, especially when it comes to flexibility and the ability to generalize. Successful completion of the task requires combining several modalities to cope with the complexity of the real world. In our work, we focus on the visual aspect of the problem and employ the strategy of learning an insertion task in a simulator. We use Deep Reinforcement Learning to learn the policy end-to-end and then transfer the learned model to the real robot, without any additional fine-tuning. We show that the transferred policy, which only takes RGB-D and joint information (proprioception) can perform well on the real robot. 

Title: 3D Dynamic Scene Graphs: Actionable Spatial Perception with Places, Objects, and Humans
Abstract:  We present a unified representation for actionable spatial perception: 3D Dynamic Scene Graphs. Scene graphs are directed graphs where nodes represent entities in the scene (e.g. objects, walls, rooms), and edges represent relations (e.g. inclusion, adjacency) among nodes. Dynamic scene graphs (DSGs) extend this notion to represent dynamic scenes with moving agents (e.g. humans, robots), and to include actionable information that supports planning and decision-making (e.g. spatio-temporal relations, topology at different levels of abstraction). Our second contribution is to provide the first fully automatic Spatial PerceptIon eNgine(SPIN) to build a DSG from visual-inertial data. We integrate state-of-the-art techniques for object and human detection and pose estimation, and we describe how to robustly infer object, robot, and human nodes in crowded scenes. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper that reconciles visual-inertial SLAM and dense human mesh tracking. Moreover, we provide algorithms to obtain hierarchical representations of indoor environments (e.g. places, structures, rooms) and their relations. Our third contribution is to demonstrate the proposed spatial perception engine in a photo-realistic Unity-based simulator, where we assess its robustness and expressiveness. Finally, we discuss the implications of our proposal on modern robotics applications. 3D Dynamic Scene Graphs can have a profound impact on planning and decision-making, human-robot interaction, long-term autonomy, and scene prediction. A video abstract is available at https://youtu.be/SWbofjhyPzI 

Title: Deep Semantic Abstractions of Everyday Human Activities: On Commonsense Representations of Human Interactions
Abstract:  We propose a deep semantic characterization of space and motion categorically from the viewpoint of grounding embodied human-object interactions. Our key focus is on an ontological model that would be adept to formalisation from the viewpoint of commonsense knowledge representation, relational learning, and qualitative reasoning about space and motion in cognitive robotics settings. We demonstrate key aspects of the space & motion ontology and its formalization as a representational framework in the backdrop of select examples from a dataset of everyday activities. Furthermore, focussing on human-object interaction data obtained from RGBD sensors, we also illustrate how declarative (spatio-temporal) reasoning in the (constraint) logic programming family may be performed with the developed deep semantic abstractions. 

Title: Adaptation and Robust Learning of Probabilistic Movement Primitives
Abstract:  Probabilistic representations of movement primitives open important new possibilities for machine learning in robotics. These representations are able to capture the variability of the demonstrations from a teacher as a probability distribution over trajectories, providing a sensible region of exploration and the ability to adapt to changes in the robot environment. However, to be able to capture variability and correlations between different joints, a probabilistic movement primitive requires the estimation of a larger number of parameters compared to their deterministic counterparts, that focus on modeling only the mean behavior. In this paper, we make use of prior distributions over the parameters of a probabilistic movement primitive to make robust estimates of the parameters with few training instances. In addition, we introduce general purpose operators to adapt movement primitives in joint and task space. The proposed training method and adaptation operators are tested in a coffee preparation and in robot table tennis task. In the coffee preparation task we evaluate the generalization performance to changes in the location of the coffee grinder and brewing chamber in a target area, achieving the desired behavior after only two demonstrations. In the table tennis task we evaluate the hit and return rates, outperforming previous approaches while using fewer task specific heuristics. 

Title: Visuomotor Mechanical Search: Learning to Retrieve Target Objects in Clutter
Abstract:  When searching for objects in cluttered environments, it is often necessary to perform complex interactions in order to move occluding objects out of the way and fully reveal the object of interest and make it graspable. Due to the complexity of the physics involved and the lack of accurate models of the clutter, planning and controlling precise predefined interactions with accurate outcome is extremely hard, when not impossible. In problems where accurate (forward) models are lacking, Deep Reinforcement Learning (RL) has shown to be a viable solution to map observations (e.g. images) to good interactions in the form of close-loop visuomotor policies. However, Deep RL is sample inefficient and fails when applied directly to the problem of unoccluding objects based on images. In this work we present a novel Deep RL procedure that combines i) teacher-aided exploration, ii) a critic with privileged information, and iii) mid-level representations, resulting in sample efficient and effective learning for the problem of uncovering a target object occluded by a heap of unknown objects. Our experiments show that our approach trains faster and converges to more efficient uncovering solutions than baselines and ablations, and that our uncovering policies lead to an average improvement in the graspability of the target object, facilitating downstream retrieval applications. 

Title: Learning Navigation Behaviors End-to-End with AutoRL
Abstract:  We learn end-to-end point-to-point and path-following navigation behaviors that avoid moving obstacles. These policies receive noisy lidar observations and output robot linear and angular velocities. The policies are trained in small, static environments with AutoRL, an evolutionary automation layer around Reinforcement Learning (RL) that searches for a deep RL reward and neural network architecture with large-scale hyper-parameter optimization. AutoRL first finds a reward that maximizes task completion, and then finds a neural network architecture that maximizes the cumulative of the found reward. Empirical evaluations, both in simulation and on-robot, show that AutoRL policies do not suffer from the catastrophic forgetfulness that plagues many other deep reinforcement learning algorithms, generalize to new environments and moving obstacles, are robust to sensor, actuator, and localization noise, and can serve as robust building blocks for larger navigation tasks. Our path-following and point-to-point policies are respectively 23% and 26% more successful than comparison methods across new environments. Video at: https://youtu.be/0UwkjpUEcbI 

Title: Combining learned and analytical models for predicting action effects
Abstract:  One of the most basic skills a robot should possess is predicting the effect of physical interactions with objects in the environment. This enables optimal action selection to reach a certain goal state. Traditionally, dynamics are approximated by physics-based analytical models. These models rely on specific state representations that may be hard to obtain from raw sensory data, especially if no knowledge of the object shape is assumed. More recently, we have seen learning approaches that can predict the effect of complex physical interactions directly from sensory input. It is however an open question how far these models generalize beyond their training data. In this work, we investigate the advantages and limitations of neural network based learning approaches for predicting the effects of actions based on sensory input and show how analytical and learned models can be combined to leverage the best of both worlds. As physical interaction task, we use planar pushing, for which there exists a well-known analytical model and a large real-world dataset. We propose to use a convolutional neural network to convert raw depth images or organized point clouds into a suitable representation for the analytical model and compare this approach to using neural networks for both, perception and prediction. A systematic evaluation of the proposed approach on a very large real-world dataset shows two main advantages of the hybrid architecture. Compared to a pure neural network, it significantly (i) reduces required training data and (ii) improves generalization to novel physical interaction. 

Title: VLocNet++: Deep Multitask Learning for Semantic Visual Localization and Odometry
Abstract:  Semantic understanding and localization are fundamental enablers of robot autonomy that have for the most part been tackled as disjoint problems. While deep learning has enabled recent breakthroughs across a wide spectrum of scene understanding tasks, its applicability to state estimation tasks has been limited due to the direct formulation that renders it incapable of encoding scene-specific constrains. In this work, we propose the VLocNet++ architecture that employs a multitask learning approach to exploit the inter-task relationship between learning semantics, regressing 6-DoF global pose and odometry, for the mutual benefit of each of these tasks. Our network overcomes the aforementioned limitation by simultaneously embedding geometric and semantic knowledge of the world into the pose regression network. We propose a novel adaptive weighted fusion layer to aggregate motion-specific temporal information and to fuse semantic features into the localization stream based on region activations. Furthermore, we propose a self-supervised warping technique that uses the relative motion to warp intermediate network representations in the segmentation stream for learning consistent semantics. Finally, we introduce a first-of-a-kind urban outdoor localization dataset with pixel-level semantic labels and multiple loops for training deep networks. Extensive experiments on the challenging Microsoft 7-Scenes benchmark and our DeepLoc dataset demonstrate that our approach exceeds the state-of-the-art outperforming local feature-based methods while simultaneously performing multiple tasks and exhibiting substantial robustness in challenging scenarios. 

Title: DensePoint: Learning Densely Contextual Representation for Efficient Point Cloud Processing
Abstract:  Point cloud processing is very challenging, as the diverse shapes formed by irregular points are often indistinguishable. A thorough grasp of the elusive shape requires sufficiently contextual semantic information, yet few works devote to this. Here we propose DensePoint, a general architecture to learn densely contextual representation for point cloud processing. Technically, it extends regular grid CNN to irregular point configuration by generalizing a convolution operator, which holds the permutation invariance of points, and achieves efficient inductive learning of local patterns. Architecturally, it finds inspiration from dense connection mode, to repeatedly aggregate multi-level and multi-scale semantics in a deep hierarchy. As a result, densely contextual information along with rich semantics, can be acquired by DensePoint in an organic manner, making it highly effective. Extensive experiments on challenging benchmarks across four tasks, as well as thorough model analysis, verify DensePoint achieves the state of the arts. 

Title: Point Cloud Based Reinforcement Learning for Sim-to-Real and Partial Observability in Visual Navigation
Abstract:  Reinforcement Learning (RL), among other learning-based methods, represents powerful tools to solve complex robotic tasks (e.g., actuation, manipulation, navigation, etc.), with the need for real-world data to train these systems as one of its most important limitations. The use of simulators is one way to address this issue, yet knowledge acquired in simulations does not work directly in the real-world, which is known as the sim-to-real transfer problem. While previous works focus on the nature of the images used as observations (e.g., textures and lighting), which has proven useful for a sim-to-sim transfer, they neglect other concerns regarding said observations, such as precise geometrical meanings, failing at robot-to-robot, and thus in sim-to-real transfers. We propose a method that learns on an observation space constructed by point clouds and environment randomization, generalizing among robots and simulators to achieve sim-to-real, while also addressing partial observability. We demonstrate the benefits of our methodology on the point goal navigation task, in which our method proves to be highly unaffected to unseen scenarios produced by robot-to-robot transfer, outperforms image-based baselines in robot-randomized experiments, and presents high performances in sim-to-sim conditions. Finally, we perform several experiments to validate the sim-to-real transfer to a physical domestic robot platform, confirming the out-of-the-box performance of our system. 

Title: Episodic Curiosity through Reachability
Abstract:  Rewards are sparse in the real world and most of today's reinforcement learning algorithms struggle with such sparsity. One solution to this problem is to allow the agent to create rewards for itself - thus making rewards dense and more suitable for learning. In particular, inspired by curious behaviour in animals, observing something novel could be rewarded with a bonus. Such bonus is summed up with the real task reward - making it possible for RL algorithms to learn from the combined reward. We propose a new curiosity method which uses episodic memory to form the novelty bonus. To determine the bonus, the current observation is compared with the observations in memory. Crucially, the comparison is done based on how many environment steps it takes to reach the current observation from those in memory - which incorporates rich information about environment dynamics. This allows us to overcome the known "couch-potato" issues of prior work - when the agent finds a way to instantly gratify itself by exploiting actions which lead to hardly predictable consequences. We test our approach in visually rich 3D environments in ViZDoom, DMLab and MuJoCo. In navigational tasks from ViZDoom and DMLab, our agent outperforms the state-of-the-art curiosity method ICM. In MuJoCo, an ant equipped with our curiosity module learns locomotion out of the first-person-view curiosity only. 

Title: Model-Based Meta-Reinforcement Learning for Flight with Suspended Payloads
Abstract:  Transporting suspended payloads is challenging for autonomous aerial vehicles because the payload can cause significant and unpredictable changes to the robot's dynamics. These changes can lead to suboptimal flight performance or even catastrophic failure. Although adaptive control and learning-based methods can in principle adapt to changes in these hybrid robot-payload systems, rapid mid-flight adaptation to payloads that have a priori unknown physical properties remains an open problem. We propose a meta-learning approach that "learns how to learn" models of altered dynamics within seconds of post-connection flight data. Our experiments demonstrate that our online adaptation approach outperforms non-adaptive methods on a series of challenging suspended payload transportation tasks. Videos and other supplemental material are available on our website https://sites.google.com/view/meta-rl-for-flight 

Title: GAMMA: A General Agent Motion Prediction Model for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Autonomous driving in mixed traffic requires reliable motion prediction of nearby traffic agents such as pedestrians, bicycles, cars, buses, etc.. This prediction problem is extremely challenging because of the diverse dynamics and geometry of traffic agents, complex road conditions, and intensive interactions among the agents. In this paper, we proposed GAMMA, a general agent motion prediction model for autonomous driving, that can predict the motion of heterogeneous traffic agents with different kinematics, geometry, human agents' inner states, etc.. GAMMA formalizes motion prediction as geometric optimization in the velocity space, and integrates physical constraints and human inner states into this unified framework. Our results show that GAMMA outperforms state-of-the-art approaches significantly on diverse real-world datasets. 

Title: Tensor-variate Mixture of Experts
Abstract:  When data are organized in matrices or arrays of higher dimensions (tensors), classical regression methods first transform these data into vectors, therefore ignoring the underlying structure of the data and increasing the dimensionality of the problem. This flattening operation typically leads to overfitting when only few training data is available. In this paper, we present a mixture of experts model that exploits tensorial representations for regression of tensor-valued data. The proposed formulation takes into account the underlying structure of the data and remains efficient when few training data are available. Evaluation on artificially generated data, as well as offline and real-time experiments recognizing hand movements from tactile myography prove the effectiveness of the proposed approach. 

Title: Grounding Perception: A Developmental Approach to Sensorimotor Contingencies
Abstract:  Sensorimotor contingency theory offers a promising account of the nature of perception, a topic rarely addressed in the robotics community. We propose a developmental framework to address the problem of the autonomous acquisition of sensorimotor contingencies by a naive robot. While exploring the world, the robot internally encodes contingencies as predictive models that capture the structure they imply in its sensorimotor experience. Three preliminary applications are presented to illustrate our approach to the acquisition of perceptive abilities: discovering the environment, discovering objects, and discovering a visual field. 

Title: Tool Substitution with Shape and Material Reasoning Using Dual Neural Networks
Abstract:  This paper explores the problem of tool substitution, namely, identifying substitute tools for performing a task from a given set of candidate tools. We introduce a novel approach to tool substitution, that unlike prior work in the area, combines both shape and material reasoning to effectively identify substitute tools. Our approach combines the use of visual and spectral reasoning using dual neural networks. It takes as input, the desired action to be performed, and outputs a ranking of the available candidate tools based on their suitability for performing the action. Our results on a test set of 30 real-world objects show that our approach is able to effectively match shape and material similarities, with improved tool substitution performance when combining both. 

Title: Fast and Incremental Loop Closure Detection Using Proximity Graphs
Abstract:  Visual loop closure detection, which can be considered as an image retrieval task, is an important problem in SLAM (Simultaneous Localization and Mapping) systems. The frequently used bag-of-words (BoW) models can achieve high precision and moderate recall. However, the requirement for lower time costs and fewer memory costs for mobile robot applications is not well satisfied. In this paper, we propose a novel loop closure detection framework titled `FILD' (Fast and Incremental Loop closure Detection), which focuses on an on-line and incremental graph vocabulary construction for fast loop closure detection. The global and local features of frames are extracted using the Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and SURF on the GPU, which guarantee extremely fast extraction speeds. The graph vocabulary construction is based on one type of proximity graph, named Hierarchical Navigable Small World (HNSW) graphs, which is modified to adapt to this specific application. In addition, this process is coupled with a novel strategy for real-time geometrical verification, which only keeps binary hash codes and significantly saves on memory usage. Extensive experiments on several publicly available datasets show that the proposed approach can achieve fairly good recall at 100\% precision compared to other state-of-the-art methods. The source code can be downloaded at https://github.com/AnshanTJU/FILD for further studies. 

Title: Symplectic Geometric Methods for Matrix Differential Equations Arising from Inertial Navigation Problems
Abstract:  This article explores some geometric and algebraic properties of the dynamical system which is represented by matrix differential equations arising from inertial navigation problems, such as the symplecticity and the orthogonality. Furthermore, it extends the applicable fields of symplectic geometric algorithms from the even dimensional Hamiltonian system to the odd dimensional dynamical system. Finally, some numerical experiments are presented and illustrate the theoretical results of this paper. 

Title: Hybrid Camera Pose Estimation with Online Partitioning
Abstract:  This paper presents a hybrid real-time camera pose estimation framework with a novel partitioning scheme and introduces motion averaging to on-line monocular systems. Breaking through the limitations of fixed-size temporal partitioning in most conventional pose estimation mechanisms, the proposed approach significantly improves the accuracy of local bundle adjustment by gathering spatially-strongly-connected cameras into each block. With the dynamic initialization using intermediate computation values, our proposed self-adaptive Levenberg-Marquardt solver achieves a quadratic convergence rate to further enhance the efficiency of the local optimization. Moreover, the dense data association between blocks by virtue of our co-visibility-based partitioning enables us to explore and implement motion averaging to efficiently align the blocks globally, updating camera motion estimations on-the-fly. Experiment results on benchmarks convincingly demonstrate the practicality and robustness of our proposed approach by outperforming conventional bundle adjustment by orders of magnitude. 

Title: Unsupervised Learning Methods for Visual Place Recognition in Discretely and Continuously Changing Environments
Abstract:  Visual place recognition in changing environments is the problem of finding matchings between two sets of observations, a query set and a reference set, despite severe appearance changes. Recently, image comparison using CNN-based descriptors showed very promising results. However, existing experiments from the literature typically assume a single distinctive condition within each set (e.g., reference: day, query: night). We demonstrate that as soon as the conditions change within one set (e.g., reference: day, query: traversal daytime-dusk-night-dawn), different places under the same condition can suddenly look more similar than same places under different conditions and state-of-the-art approaches like CNN-based descriptors fail. This paper discusses this practically very important problem of in-sequence condition changes and defines a hierarchy of problem setups from (1) no in-sequence changes, (2) discrete in-sequence changes, to (3) continuous in-sequence changes. We will experimentally evaluate the effect of these changes on two state-of-the-art CNN-descriptors. Our experiments emphasize the importance of statistical standardization of descriptors and shows its limitations in case of continuous changes. To address this practically most relevant setup, we investigate and experimentally evaluate the application of unsupervised learning methods using two available PCA-based approaches and propose a novel clustering-based extension of the statistical normalization. 

Title: Improved Generalization of Heading Direction Estimation for Aerial Filming Using Semi-supervised Regression
Abstract:  In the task of Autonomous aerial filming of a moving actor (e.g. a person or a vehicle), it is crucial to have a good heading direction estimation for the actor from the visual input. However, the models obtained in other similar tasks, such as pedestrian collision risk analysis and human-robot interaction, are very difficult to generalize to the aerial filming task, because of the difference in data distributions. Towards improving generalization with less amount of labeled data, this paper presents a semi-supervised algorithm for heading direction estimation problem. We utilize temporal continuity as the unsupervised signal to regularize the model and achieve better generalization ability. This semi-supervised algorithm is applied to both training and testing phases, which increases the testing performance by a large margin. We show that by leveraging unlabeled sequences, the amount of labeled data required can be significantly reduced. We also discuss several important details on improving the performance by balancing labeled and unlabeled loss, and making good combinations. Experimental results show that our approach robustly outputs the heading direction for different types of actor. The aesthetic value of the video is also improved in the aerial filming task. 

Title: Acting Thoughts: Towards a Mobile Robotic Service Assistant for Users with Limited Communication Skills
Abstract:  As autonomous service robots become more affordable and thus available also for the general public, there is a growing need for user friendly interfaces to control the robotic system. Currently available control modalities typically expect users to be able to express their desire through either touch, speech or gesture commands. While this requirement is fulfilled for the majority of users, paralyzed users may not be able to use such systems. In this paper, we present a novel framework, that allows these users to interact with a robotic service assistant in a closed-loop fashion, using only thoughts. The brain-computer interface (BCI) system is composed of several interacting components, i.e., non-invasive neuronal signal recording and decoding, high-level task planning, motion and manipulation planning as well as environment perception. In various experiments, we demonstrate its applicability and robustness in real world scenarios, considering fetch-and-carry tasks and tasks involving human-robot interaction. As our results demonstrate, our system is capable of adapting to frequent changes in the environment and reliably completing given tasks within a reasonable amount of time. Combined with high-level planning and autonomous robotic systems, interesting new perspectives open up for non-invasive BCI-based human-robot interactions. 

Title: Beyond the Nav-Graph: Vision-and-Language Navigation in Continuous Environments
Abstract:  We develop a language-guided navigation task set in a continuous 3D environment where agents must execute low-level actions to follow natural language navigation directions. By being situated in continuous environments, this setting lifts a number of assumptions implicit in prior work that represents environments as a sparse graph of panoramas with edges corresponding to navigability. Specifically, our setting drops the presumptions of known environment topologies, short-range oracle navigation, and perfect agent localization. To contextualize this new task, we develop models that mirror many of the advances made in prior settings as well as single-modality baselines. While some of these techniques transfer, we find significantly lower absolute performance in the continuous setting -- suggesting that performance in prior `navigation-graph' settings may be inflated by the strong implicit assumptions. 

Title: PVN3D: A Deep Point-wise 3D Keypoints Voting Network for 6DoF Pose Estimation
Abstract:  In this work, we present a novel data-driven method for robust 6DoF object pose estimation from a single RGBD image. Unlike previous methods that directly regressing pose parameters, we tackle this challenging task with a keypoint-based approach. Specifically, we propose a deep Hough voting network to detect 3D keypoints of objects and then estimate the 6D pose parameters within a least-squares fitting manner. Our method is a natural extension of 2D-keypoint approaches that successfully work on RGB based 6DoF estimation. It allows us to fully utilize the geometric constraint of rigid objects with the extra depth information and is easy for a network to learn and optimize. Extensive experiments were conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of 3D-keypoint detection in the 6D pose estimation task. Experimental results also show our method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods by large margins on several benchmarks. Code and video are available at https://github.com/ethnhe/PVN3D.git. 

Title: Parareal with a Learned Coarse Model for Robotic Manipulation
Abstract:  A key component of many robotics model-based planning and control algorithms is physics predictions, that is, forecasting a sequence of states given an initial state and a sequence of controls. This process is slow and a major computational bottleneck for robotics planning algorithms. Parallel-in-time integration methods can help to leverage parallel computing to accelerate physics predictions and thus planning. The Parareal algorithm iterates between a coarse serial integrator and a fine parallel integrator. A key challenge is to devise a coarse model that is computationally cheap but accurate enough for Parareal to converge quickly. Here, we investigate the use of a deep neural network physics model as a coarse model for Parareal in the context of robotic manipulation. In simulated experiments using the physics engine Mujoco as fine propagator we show that the learned coarse model leads to faster Parareal convergence than a coarse physics-based model. We further show that the learned coarse model allows to apply Parareal to scenarios with multiple objects, where the physics-based coarse model is not applicable. Finally, we conduct experiments on a real robot and show that Parareal predictions are close to real-world physics predictions for robotic pushing of multiple objects. Videos are at https://youtu.be/wCh2o1rf-gA. 

Title: Classification based Grasp Detection using Spatial Transformer Network
Abstract:  Robotic grasp detection task is still challenging, particularly for novel objects. With the recent advance of deep learning, there have been several works on detecting robotic grasp using neural networks. Typically, regression based grasp detection methods have outperformed classification based detection methods in computation complexity with excellent accuracy. However, classification based robotic grasp detection still seems to have merits such as intermediate step observability and straightforward back propagation routine for end-to-end training. In this work, we propose a novel classification based robotic grasp detection method with multiple-stage spatial transformer networks (STN). Our proposed method was able to achieve state-of-the-art performance in accuracy with real- time computation. Additionally, unlike other regression based grasp detection methods, our proposed method allows partial observation for intermediate results such as grasp location and orientation for a number of grasp configuration candidates. 

Title: A Multi-Domain Feature Learning Method for Visual Place Recognition
Abstract:  Visual Place Recognition (VPR) is an important component in both computer vision and robotics applications, thanks to its ability to determine whether a place has been visited and where specifically. A major challenge in VPR is to handle changes of environmental conditions including weather, season and illumination. Most VPR methods try to improve the place recognition performance by ignoring the environmental factors, leading to decreased accuracy decreases when environmental conditions change significantly, such as day versus night. To this end, we propose an end-to-end conditional visual place recognition method. Specifically, we introduce the multi-domain feature learning method (MDFL) to capture multiple attribute-descriptions for a given place, and then use a feature detaching module to separate the environmental condition-related features from those that are not. The only label required within this feature learning pipeline is the environmental condition. Evaluation of the proposed method is conducted on the multi-season \textit{NORDLAND} dataset, and the multi-weather \textit{GTAV} dataset. Experimental results show that our method improves the feature robustness against variant environmental conditions. 

Title: Density Matching Reward Learning
Abstract:  In this paper, we focus on the problem of inferring the underlying reward function of an expert given demonstrations, which is often referred to as inverse reinforcement learning (IRL). In particular, we propose a model-free density-based IRL algorithm, named density matching reward learning (DMRL), which does not require model dynamics. The performance of DMRL is analyzed theoretically and the sample complexity is derived. Furthermore, the proposed DMRL is extended to handle nonlinear IRL problems by assuming that the reward function is in the reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS) and kernel DMRL (KDMRL) is proposed. The parameters for KDMRL can be computed analytically, which greatly reduces the computation time. The performance of KDMRL is extensively evaluated in two sets of experiments: grid world and track driving experiments. In grid world experiments, the proposed KDMRL method is compared with both model-based and model-free IRL methods and shows superior performance on a nonlinear reward setting and competitive performance on a linear reward setting in terms of expected value differences. Then we move on to more realistic experiments of learning different driving styles for autonomous navigation in complex and dynamic tracks using KDMRL and receding horizon control. 

Title: Can I Pour into It? Robot Imagining Open Containability Affordance of Previously Unseen Objects via Physical Simulations
Abstract:  Open containers, i.e., containers without covers, are an important and ubiquitous class of objects in human life. In this letter, we propose a novel method for robots to "imagine" the open containability affordance of a previously unseen object via physical simulations. We implement our imagination method on a UR5 manipulator. The robot autonomously scans the object with an RGB-D camera. The scanned 3D model is used for open containability imagination which quantifies the open containability affordance by physically simulating dropping particles onto the object and counting how many particles are retained in it. This quantification is used for open-container vs. non-open-container binary classification (hereafter referred to as open container classification). If the object is classified as an open container, the robot further imagines pouring into the object, again using physical simulations, to obtain the pouring position and orientation for real robot autonomous pouring. We evaluate our method on open container classification and autonomous pouring of granular material on a dataset containing 130 previously unseen objects with 57 object categories. Although our proposed method uses only 11 objects for simulation calibration (training), its open container classification aligns well with human judgements. In addition, our method endows the robot with the capability to autonomously pour into the 55 containers in the dataset with a very high success rate. We also compare to a deep learning method. Results show that our method achieves the same performance as the deep learning method on open container classification and outperforms it on autonomous pouring. Moreover, our method is fully explainable. 

Title: SE3-Pose-Nets: Structured Deep Dynamics Models for Visuomotor Planning and Control
Abstract:  In this work, we present an approach to deep visuomotor control using structured deep dynamics models. Our deep dynamics model, a variant of SE3-Nets, learns a low-dimensional pose embedding for visuomotor control via an encoder-decoder structure. Unlike prior work, our dynamics model is structured: given an input scene, our network explicitly learns to segment salient parts and predict their pose-embedding along with their motion modeled as a change in the pose space due to the applied actions. We train our model using a pair of point clouds separated by an action and show that given supervision only in the form of point-wise data associations between the frames our network is able to learn a meaningful segmentation of the scene along with consistent poses. We further show that our model can be used for closed-loop control directly in the learned low-dimensional pose space, where the actions are computed by minimizing error in the pose space using gradient-based methods, similar to traditional model-based control. We present results on controlling a Baxter robot from raw depth data in simulation and in the real world and compare against two baseline deep networks. Our method runs in real-time, achieves good prediction of scene dynamics and outperforms the baseline methods on multiple control runs. Video results can be found at: https://rse-lab.cs.washington.edu/se3-structured-deep-ctrl/ 

Title: ADD: Analytically Differentiable Dynamics for Multi-Body Systems with Frictional Contact
Abstract:  We present a differentiable dynamics solver that is able to handle frictional contact for rigid and deformable objects within a unified framework. Through a principled mollification of normal and tangential contact forces, our method circumvents the main difficulties inherent to the non-smooth nature of frictional contact. We combine this new contact model with fully-implicit time integration to obtain a robust and efficient dynamics solver that is analytically differentiable. In conjunction with adjoint sensitivity analysis, our formulation enables gradient-based optimization with adaptive trade-offs between simulation accuracy and smoothness of objective function landscapes. We thoroughly analyse our approach on a set of simulation examples involving rigid bodies, visco-elastic materials, and coupled multi-body systems. We furthermore showcase applications of our differentiable simulator to parameter estimation for deformable objects, motion planning for robotic manipulation, trajectory optimization for compliant walking robots, as well as efficient self-supervised learning of control policies. 

Title: Methodology to analyze the accuracy of 3D objects reconstructed with collaborative robot based monocular LSD-SLAM
Abstract:  SLAM systems are mainly applied for robot navigation while research on feasibility for motion planning with SLAM for tasks like bin-picking, is scarce. Accurate 3D reconstruction of objects and environments is important for planning motion and computing optimal gripper pose to grasp objects. In this work, we propose the methods to analyze the accuracy of a 3D environment reconstructed using a LSD-SLAM system with a monocular camera mounted onto the gripper of a collaborative robot. We discuss and propose a solution to the pose space conversion problem. Finally, we present several criteria to analyze the 3D reconstruction accuracy. These could be used as guidelines to improve the accuracy of 3D reconstructions with monocular LSD-SLAM and other SLAM based solutions. 

Title: Learning Articulated Motions From Visual Demonstration
Abstract:  Many functional elements of human homes and workplaces consist of rigid components which are connected through one or more sliding or rotating linkages. Examples include doors and drawers of cabinets and appliances; laptops; and swivel office chairs. A robotic mobile manipulator would benefit from the ability to acquire kinematic models of such objects from observation. This paper describes a method by which a robot can acquire an object model by capturing depth imagery of the object as a human moves it through its range of motion. We envision that in future, a machine newly introduced to an environment could be shown by its human user the articulated objects particular to that environment, inferring from these "visual demonstrations" enough information to actuate each object independently of the user. Our method employs sparse (markerless) feature tracking, motion segmentation, component pose estimation, and articulation learning; it does not require prior object models. Using the method, a robot can observe an object being exercised, infer a kinematic model incorporating rigid, prismatic and revolute joints, then use the model to predict the object's motion from a novel vantage point. We evaluate the method's performance, and compare it to that of a previously published technique, for a variety of household objects. 

Title: PERCH 2.0 : Fast and Accurate GPU-based Perception via Search for Object Pose Estimation
Abstract:  Pose estimation of known objects is fundamental to tasks such as robotic grasping and manipulation. The need for reliable grasping imposes stringent accuracy requirements on pose estimation in cluttered, occluded scenes in dynamic environments. Modern methods employ large sets of training data to learn features in order to find correspondence between 3D models and observed data. However these methods require extensive annotation of ground truth poses. An alternative is to use algorithms that search for the best explanation of the observed scene in a space of possible rendered scenes. A recently developed algorithm, PERCH (PErception Via SeaRCH) does so by using depth data to converge to a globally optimum solution using a search over a specially constructed tree. While PERCH offers strong guarantees on accuracy, the current formulation suffers from low scalability owing to its high runtime. In addition, the sole reliance on depth data for pose estimation restricts the algorithm to scenes where no two objects have the same shape. In this work, we propose PERCH 2.0, a novel perception via search strategy that takes advantage of GPU acceleration and RGB data. We show that our approach can achieve a speedup of 100x over PERCH, as well as better accuracy than the state-of-the-art data-driven approaches on 6-DoF pose estimation without the need for annotating ground truth poses in the training data. Our code and video are available at https://sbpl-cruz.github.io/perception/. 

Title: Robust Deep-Learning-Based Road-Prediction for Augmented Reality Navigation Systems
Abstract:  This paper proposes an approach that predicts the road course from camera sensors leveraging deep learning techniques. Road pixels are identified by training a multi-scale convolutional neural network on a large number of full-scene-labeled night-time road images including adverse weather conditions. A framework is presented that applies the proposed approach to longer distance road course estimation, which is the basis for an augmented reality navigation application. In this framework long range sensor data (radar) and data from a map database are fused with short range sensor data (camera) to produce a precise longitudinal and lateral localization and road course estimation. The proposed approach reliably detects roads with and without lane markings and thus increases the robustness and availability of road course estimations and augmented reality navigation. Evaluations on an extensive set of high precision ground truth data taken from a differential GPS and an inertial measurement unit show that the proposed approach reaches state-of-the-art performance without the limitation of requiring existing lane markings. 

Title: Physics-based Scene-level Reasoning for Object Pose Estimation in Clutter
Abstract:  This paper focuses on vision-based pose estimation for multiple rigid objects placed in clutter, especially in cases involving occlusions and objects resting on each other. Progress has been achieved recently in object recognition given advancements in deep learning. Nevertheless, such tools typically require a large amount of training data and significant manual effort to label objects. This limits their applicability in robotics, where solutions must scale to a large number of objects and variety of conditions. Moreover, the combinatorial nature of the scenes that could arise from the placement of multiple objects is hard to capture in the training dataset. Thus, the learned models might not produce the desired level of precision required for tasks, such as robotic manipulation. This work proposes an autonomous process for pose estimation that spans from data generation to scene-level reasoning and self-learning. In particular, the proposed framework first generates a labeled dataset for training a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) for object detection in clutter. These detections are used to guide a scene-level optimization process, which considers the interactions between the different objects present in the clutter to output pose estimates of high precision. Furthermore, confident estimates are used to label online real images from multiple views and re-train the process in a self-learning pipeline. Experimental results indicate that this process is quickly able to identify in cluttered scenes physically-consistent object poses that are more precise than the ones found by reasoning over individual instances of objects. Furthermore, the quality of pose estimates increases over time given the self-learning process. 

Title: Driving Decision and Control for Autonomous Lane Change based on Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  We apply Deep Q-network (DQN) with the consideration of safety during the task for deciding whether to conduct the maneuver. Furthermore, we design two similar Deep Q learning frameworks with quadratic approximator for deciding how to select a comfortable gap and just follow the preceding vehicle. Finally, a polynomial lane change trajectory is generated and Pure Pursuit Control is implemented for path tracking. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this framework in simulation, from both the decision-making and control layers. The proposed architecture also has the potential to be extended to other autonomous driving scenarios. 

Title: Combining Self-Supervised Learning and Imitation for Vision-Based Rope Manipulation
Abstract:  Manipulation of deformable objects, such as ropes and cloth, is an important but challenging problem in robotics. We present a learning-based system where a robot takes as input a sequence of images of a human manipulating a rope from an initial to goal configuration, and outputs a sequence of actions that can reproduce the human demonstration, using only monocular images as input. To perform this task, the robot learns a pixel-level inverse dynamics model of rope manipulation directly from images in a self-supervised manner, using about 60K interactions with the rope collected autonomously by the robot. The human demonstration provides a high-level plan of what to do and the low-level inverse model is used to execute the plan. We show that by combining the high and low-level plans, the robot can successfully manipulate a rope into a variety of target shapes using only a sequence of human-provided images for direction. 

Title: Motion2Vec: Semi-Supervised Representation Learning from Surgical Videos
Abstract:  Learning meaningful visual representations in an embedding space can facilitate generalization in downstream tasks such as action segmentation and imitation. In this paper, we learn a motion-centric representation of surgical video demonstrations by grouping them into action segments/sub-goals/options in a semi-supervised manner. We present Motion2Vec, an algorithm that learns a deep embedding feature space from video observations by minimizing a metric learning loss in a Siamese network: images from the same action segment are pulled together while pushed away from randomly sampled images of other segments, while respecting the temporal ordering of the images. The embeddings are iteratively segmented with a recurrent neural network for a given parametrization of the embedding space after pre-training the Siamese network. We only use a small set of labeled video segments to semantically align the embedding space and assign pseudo-labels to the remaining unlabeled data by inference on the learned model parameters. We demonstrate the use of this representation to imitate surgical suturing motions from publicly available videos of the JIGSAWS dataset. Results give 85.5 % segmentation accuracy on average suggesting performance improvement over several state-of-the-art baselines, while kinematic pose imitation gives 0.94 centimeter error in position per observation on the test set. Videos, code and data are available at https://sites.google.com/view/motion2vec 

Title: Reconstruction of 3D flight trajectories from ad-hoc camera networks
Abstract:  We present a method to reconstruct the 3D trajectory of an airborne robotic system only from videos recorded with cameras that are unsynchronized, may feature rolling shutter distortion, and whose viewpoints are unknown. Our approach enables robust and accurate outside-in tracking of dynamically flying targets, with cheap and easy-to-deploy equipment. We show that, in spite of the weakly constrained setting, recent developments in computer vision make it possible to reconstruct trajectories in 3D from unsynchronized, uncalibrated networks of consumer cameras, and validate the proposed method in a realistic field experiment. We make our code available along with the data, including cm-accurate ground-truth from differential GNSS navigation. 

Title: Fuzzy Knowledge-Based Architecture for Learning and Interaction in Social Robots
Abstract:  In this paper, we introduce an extension of our presented cognitive-based emotion model [27][28]and [30], where we enhance our knowledge-based emotion unit of the architecture by embedding a fuzzy rule-based system to it. The model utilizes the cognitive parameters dependency and their corresponding weights to regulate the robot's behavior and fuse their behavior data to achieve the final decision in their interaction with the environment. Using this fuzzy system, our previous model can simulate linguistic parameters for better controlling and generating understandable and flexible behaviors in the robots. We implement our model on an assistive healthcare robot, named Robot Nurse Assistant (RNA) and test it with human subjects. Our model records all the emotion states and essential information based on its predefined rules and learning system. Our results show that our robot interacts with patients in a reasonable, faithful way in special conditions which are defined by rules. This work has the potential to provide better on-demand service for clinical experts to monitor the patients' emotion states and help them make better decisions accordingly. 

Title: Preparing for the Unknown: Learning a Universal Policy with Online System Identification
Abstract:  We present a new method of learning control policies that successfully operate under unknown dynamic models. We create such policies by leveraging a large number of training examples that are generated using a physical simulator. Our system is made of two components: a Universal Policy (UP) and a function for Online System Identification (OSI). We describe our control policy as universal because it is trained over a wide array of dynamic models. These variations in the dynamic model may include differences in mass and inertia of the robots' components, variable friction coefficients, or unknown mass of an object to be manipulated. By training the Universal Policy with this variation, the control policy is prepared for a wider array of possible conditions when executed in an unknown environment. The second part of our system uses the recent state and action history of the system to predict the dynamics model parameters mu. The value of mu from the Online System Identification is then provided as input to the control policy (along with the system state). Together, UP-OSI is a robust control policy that can be used across a wide range of dynamic models, and that is also responsive to sudden changes in the environment. We have evaluated the performance of this system on a variety of tasks, including the problem of cart-pole swing-up, the double inverted pendulum, locomotion of a hopper, and block-throwing of a manipulator. UP-OSI is effective at these tasks across a wide range of dynamic models. Moreover, when tested with dynamic models outside of the training range, UP-OSI outperforms the Universal Policy alone, even when UP is given the actual value of the model dynamics. In addition to the benefits of creating more robust controllers, UP-OSI also holds out promise of narrowing the Reality Gap between simulated and real physical systems. 

Title: Collision Selective Visual Neural Network Inspired by LGMD2 Neurons in Juvenile Locusts
Abstract:  For autonomous robots in dynamic environments mixed with human, it is vital to detect impending collision quickly and robustly. The biological visual systems evolved over millions of years may provide us efficient solutions for collision detection in complex environments. In the cockpit of locusts, two Lobula Giant Movement Detectors, i.e. LGMD1 and LGMD2, have been identified which respond to looming objects rigorously with high firing rates. Compared to LGMD1, LGMD2 matures early in the juvenile locusts with specific selectivity to dark moving objects against bright background in depth while not responding to light objects embedded in dark background - a similar situation which ground vehicles and robots are facing with. However, little work has been done on modeling LGMD2, let alone its potential in robotics and other vision-based applications. In this article, we propose a novel way of modeling LGMD2 neuron, with biased ON and OFF pathways splitting visual streams into parallel channels encoding brightness increments and decrements separately to fulfill its selectivity. Moreover, we apply a biophysical mechanism of spike frequency adaptation to shape the looming selectivity in such a collision-detecting neuron model. The proposed visual neural network has been tested with systematic experiments, challenged against synthetic and real physical stimuli, as well as image streams from the sensor of a miniature robot. The results demonstrated this framework is able to detect looming dark objects embedded in bright backgrounds selectively, which make it ideal for ground mobile platforms. The robotic experiments also showed its robustness in collision detection - it performed well for near range navigation in an arena with many obstacles. Its enhanced collision selectivity to dark approaching objects versus receding and translating ones has also been verified via systematic experiments. 

Title: Dynamic Regret Convergence Analysis and an Adaptive Regularization Algorithm for On-Policy Robot Imitation Learning
Abstract:  On-policy imitation learning algorithms such as DAgger evolve a robot control policy by executing it, measuring performance (loss), obtaining corrective feedback from a supervisor, and generating the next policy. As the loss between iterations can vary unpredictably, a fundamental question is under what conditions this process will eventually achieve a converged policy. If one assumes the underlying trajectory distribution is static (stationary), it is possible to prove convergence for DAgger. However, in more realistic models for robotics, the underlying trajectory distribution is dynamic because it is a function of the policy. Recent results show it is possible to prove convergence of DAgger when a regularity condition on the rate of change of the trajectory distributions is satisfied. In this article, we reframe this result using dynamic regret theory from the field of online optimization and show that dynamic regret can be applied to any on-policy algorithm to analyze its convergence and optimality. These results inspire a new algorithm, Adaptive On-Policy Regularization (AOR), that ensures the conditions for convergence. We present simulation results with cart-pole balancing and locomotion benchmarks that suggest AOR can significantly decrease dynamic regret and chattering as the robot learns. To our knowledge, this the first application of dynamic regret theory to imitation learning. 

Title: Probabilistic RGB-D Odometry based on Points, Lines and Planes Under Depth Uncertainty
Abstract:  This work proposes a robust visual odometry method for structured environments that combines point features with line and plane segments, extracted through an RGB-D camera. Noisy depth maps are processed by a probabilistic depth fusion framework based on Mixtures of Gaussians to denoise and derive the depth uncertainty, which is then propagated throughout the visual odometry pipeline. Probabilistic 3D plane and line fitting solutions are used to model the uncertainties of the feature parameters and pose is estimated by combining the three types of primitives based on their uncertainties. Performance evaluation on RGB-D sequences collected in this work and two public RGB-D datasets: TUM and ICL-NUIM show the benefit of using the proposed depth fusion framework and combining the three feature-types, particularly in scenes with low-textured surfaces, dynamic objects and missing depth measurements. 

Title: Unlocking the Potential of Simulators: Design with RL in Mind
Abstract:  Using Reinforcement Learning (RL) in simulation to construct policies useful in real life is challenging. This is often attributed to the sequential decision making aspect: inaccuracies in simulation accumulate over multiple steps, hence the simulated trajectories diverge from what would happen in reality. In our work we show the need to consider another important aspect: the mismatch in simulating control. We bring attention to the need for modeling control as well as dynamics, since oversimplifying assumptions about applying actions of RL policies could make the policies fail on real-world systems. We design a simulator for solving a pivoting task (of interest in Robotics) and demonstrate that even a simple simulator designed with RL in mind outperforms high-fidelity simulators when it comes to learning a policy that is to be deployed on a real robotic system. We show that a phenomenon that is hard to model - friction - could be exploited successfully, even when RL is performed using a simulator with a simple dynamics and noise model. Hence, we demonstrate that as long as the main sources of uncertainty are identified, it could be possible to learn policies applicable to real systems even using a simple simulator. RL-compatible simulators could open the possibilities for applying a wide range of RL algorithms in various fields. This is important, since currently data sparsity in fields like healthcare and education frequently forces researchers and engineers to only consider sample-efficient RL approaches. Successful simulator-aided RL could increase flexibility of experimenting with RL algorithms and help applying RL policies to real-world settings in fields where data is scarce. We believe that lessons learned in Robotics could help other fields design RL-compatible simulators, so we summarize our experience and conclude with suggestions. 

Title: Beyond Monolingual Vision-Language Navigation
Abstract:  Commanding a robot to navigate with natural language instructions is a long-term goal for grounded language understanding and robotics. But the dominant language is English, according to previous studies on vision-language navigation (VLN). To go beyond English and serve people speaking different languages, we collect a bilingual Room-to-Room (BL-R2R) dataset, extending the original benchmark with new Chinese instructions. Based on this newly introduced dataset, we study how an agent can be trained on existing English instructions but navigate effectively with another language under a zero-shot learning scenario. Without any training data of the target language, our model shows competitive results even compared to a model with full access to the target language training data. Moreover, we investigate the transferring ability of our model when given a certain amount of target language training data. 

Title: Monocular Plan View Networks for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Convolutions on monocular dash cam videos capture spatial invariances in the image plane but do not explicitly reason about distances and depth. We propose a simple transformation of observations into a bird's eye view, also known as plan view, for end-to-end control. We detect vehicles and pedestrians in the first person view and project them into an overhead plan view. This representation provides an abstraction of the environment from which a deep network can easily deduce the positions and directions of entities. Additionally, the plan view enables us to leverage advances in 3D object detection in conjunction with deep policy learning. We evaluate our monocular plan view network on the photo-realistic Grand Theft Auto V simulator. A network using both a plan view and front view causes less than half as many collisions as previous detection-based methods and an order of magnitude fewer collisions than pure pixel-based policies. 

Title: SAPIEN: A SimulAted Part-based Interactive ENvironment
Abstract:  Building home assistant robots has long been a pursuit for vision and robotics researchers. To achieve this task, a simulated environment with physically realistic simulation, sufficient articulated objects, and transferability to the real robot is indispensable. Existing environments achieve these requirements for robotics simulation with different levels of simplification and focus. We take one step further in constructing an environment that supports household tasks for training robot learning algorithm. Our work, SAPIEN, is a realistic and physics-rich simulated environment that hosts a large-scale set for articulated objects. Our SAPIEN enables various robotic vision and interaction tasks that require detailed part-level understanding.We evaluate state-of-the-art vision algorithms for part detection and motion attribute recognition as well as demonstrate robotic interaction tasks using heuristic approaches and reinforcement learning algorithms. We hope that our SAPIEN can open a lot of research directions yet to be explored, including learning cognition through interaction, part motion discovery, and construction of robotics-ready simulated game environment. 

Title: Motion Primitives for Robotic Flight Control
Abstract:  We introduce a simple framework for learning aggressive maneuvers in flight control of UAVs. Having inspired from biological environment, dynamic movement primitives are analyzed and extended using nonlinear contraction theory. Accordingly, primitives of an observed movement are stably combined and concatenated. We demonstrate our results experimentally on the Quanser Helicopter, in which we first imitate aggressive maneuvers and then use them as primitives to achieve new maneuvers that can fly over an obstacle. 

Title: Driving Experience Transfer Method for End-to-End Control of Self-Driving Cars
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a transfer learning method for the end-to-end control of self-driving cars, which enables a convolutional neural network (CNN) trained on a source domain to be utilized for the same task in a different target domain. A conventional CNN for the end-to-end control is designed to map a single front-facing camera image to a steering command. To enable the transfer learning, we let the CNN produce not only a steering command but also a lane departure level (LDL) by adding a new task module, which takes the output of the last convolutional layer as input. The CNN trained on the source domain, called source network, is then utilized to train another task module called target network, which also takes the output of the last convolutional layer of the source network and is trained to produce a steering command for the target domain. The steering commands from the source and target network are finally merged according to the LDL and the merged command is utilized for controlling a car in the target domain. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method, we utilized two simulators, TORCS and GTAV, for the source and the target domains, respectively. Experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms other baseline methods in terms of stable and safe control of cars. 

Title: Transferring Physical Motion Between Domains for Neural Inertial Tracking
Abstract:  Inertial information processing plays a pivotal role in ego-motion awareness for mobile agents, as inertial measurements are entirely egocentric and not environment dependent. However, they are affected greatly by changes in sensor placement/orientation or motion dynamics, and it is infeasible to collect labelled data from every domain. To overcome the challenges of domain adaptation on long sensory sequences, we propose a novel framework that extracts domain-invariant features of raw sequences from arbitrary domains, and transforms to new domains without any paired data. Through the experiments, we demonstrate that it is able to efficiently and effectively convert the raw sequence from a new unlabelled target domain into an accurate inertial trajectory, benefiting from the physical motion knowledge transferred from the labelled source domain. We also conduct real-world experiments to show our framework can reconstruct physically meaningful trajectories from raw IMU measurements obtained with a standard mobile phone in various attachments. 

Title: Safer End-to-End Autonomous Driving via Conditional Imitation Learning and Command Augmentation
Abstract:  Imitation learning is a promising approach to end-to-end training of autonomous vehicle controllers. Typically the driving process with such approaches is entirely automatic and black-box, although in practice it is desirable to control the vehicle through high-level commands, such as telling it which way to go at an intersection. In existing work this has been accomplished by the application of a branched neural architecture, since directly providing the command as an additional input to the controller often results in the command being ignored. In this work we overcome this limitation by learning a disentangled probabilistic latent variable model that generates the steering commands. We achieve faithful command-conditional generation without using a branched architecture and demonstrate improved stability of the controller, applying only a variational objective without any domain-specific adjustments. On top of that, we extend our model with an additional latent variable and augment the dataset to train a controller that is robust to unsafe commands, such as asking it to turn into a wall. The main contribution of this work is a recipe for building controllable imitation driving agents that improves upon multiple aspects of the current state of the art relating to robustness and interpretability. 

Title: Incremental Robot Learning of New Objects with Fixed Update Time
Abstract:  We consider object recognition in the context of lifelong learning, where a robotic agent learns to discriminate between a growing number of object classes as it accumulates experience about the environment. We propose an incremental variant of the Regularized Least Squares for Classification (RLSC) algorithm, and exploit its structure to seamlessly add new classes to the learned model. The presented algorithm addresses the problem of having an unbalanced proportion of training examples per class, which occurs when new objects are presented to the system for the first time. We evaluate our algorithm on both a machine learning benchmark dataset and two challenging object recognition tasks in a robotic setting. Empirical evidence shows that our approach achieves comparable or higher classification performance than its batch counterpart when classes are unbalanced, while being significantly faster. 

Title: ORB-SLAM2: an Open-Source SLAM System for Monocular, Stereo and RGB-D Cameras
Abstract:  We present ORB-SLAM2 a complete SLAM system for monocular, stereo and RGB-D cameras, including map reuse, loop closing and relocalization capabilities. The system works in real-time on standard CPUs in a wide variety of environments from small hand-held indoors sequences, to drones flying in industrial environments and cars driving around a city. Our back-end based on bundle adjustment with monocular and stereo observations allows for accurate trajectory estimation with metric scale. Our system includes a lightweight localization mode that leverages visual odometry tracks for unmapped regions and matches to map points that allow for zero-drift localization. The evaluation on 29 popular public sequences shows that our method achieves state-of-the-art accuracy, being in most cases the most accurate SLAM solution. We publish the source code, not only for the benefit of the SLAM community, but with the aim of being an out-of-the-box SLAM solution for researchers in other fields. 

Title: Model-based Behavioral Cloning with Future Image Similarity Learning
Abstract:  We present a visual imitation learning framework that enables learning of robot action policies solely based on expert samples without any robot trials. Robot exploration and on-policy trials in a real-world environment could often be expensive/dangerous. We present a new approach to address this problem by learning a future scene prediction model solely on a collection of expert trajectories consisting of unlabeled example videos and actions, and by enabling generalized action cloning using future image similarity. The robot learns to visually predict the consequences of taking an action, and obtains the policy by evaluating how similar the predicted future image is to an expert image. We develop a stochastic action-conditioned convolutional autoencoder, and present how we take advantage of future images for robot learning. We conduct experiments in simulated and real-life environments using a ground mobility robot with and without obstacles, and compare our models to multiple baseline methods. 

Title: Teaching a Machine to Read Maps with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  The ability to use a 2D map to navigate a complex 3D environment is quite remarkable, and even difficult for many humans. Localization and navigation is also an important problem in domains such as robotics, and has recently become a focus of the deep reinforcement learning community. In this paper we teach a reinforcement learning agent to read a map in order to find the shortest way out of a random maze it has never seen before. Our system combines several state-of-the-art methods such as A3C and incorporates novel elements such as a recurrent localization cell. Our agent learns to localize itself based on 3D first person images and an approximate orientation angle. The agent generalizes well to bigger mazes, showing that it learned useful localization and navigation capabilities. 

Title: Generating Shared Latent Variables for Robots to Imitate Human Movements and Understand their Physical Limitations
Abstract:  Assistive robotics and particularly robot coaches may be very helpful for rehabilitation healthcare. In this context, we propose a method based on Gaussian Process Latent Variable Model (GP-LVM) to transfer knowledge between a physiotherapist, a robot coach and a patient. Our model is able to map visual human body features to robot data in order to facilitate the robot learning and imitation. In addition , we propose to extend the model to adapt robots' understanding to patient's physical limitations during the assessment of rehabilitation exercises. Experimental evaluation demonstrates promising results for both robot imitation and model adaptation according to the patients' limitations. 

Title: Enhanced Transfer Learning for Autonomous Driving with Systematic Accident Simulation
Abstract:  Simulation data can be utilized to extend real-world driving data in order to cover edge cases, such as vehicle accidents. The importance of handling edge cases can be observed in the high societal costs in handling car accidents, as well as potential dangers to human drivers. In order to cover a wide and diverse range of all edge cases, we systemically parameterize and simulate the most common accident scenarios. By applying this data to autonomous driving models, we show that transfer learning on simulated data sets provide better generalization and collision avoidance, as compared to random initialization methods. Our results illustrate that information from a model trained on simulated data can be inferred to a model trained on real-world data, indicating the potential influence of simulation data in real world models and advancements in handling of anomalous driving scenarios. 

Title: Assembly robots with optimized control stiffness through reinforcement learning
Abstract:  There is an increased demand for task automation in robots. Contact-rich tasks, wherein multiple contact transitions occur in a series of operations, are extensively being studied to realize high accuracy. In this study, we propose a methodology that uses reinforcement learning (RL) to achieve high performance in robots for the execution of assembly tasks that require precise contact with objects without causing damage. The proposed method ensures the online generation of stiffness matrices that help improve the performance of local trajectory optimization. The method has an advantage of rapid response owing to short sampling time of the trajectory planning. The effectiveness of the method was verified via experiments involving two contact-rich tasks. The results indicate that the proposed method can be implemented in various contact-rich manipulations. A demonstration video shows the performance. (https://youtu.be/gxSCl7Tp4-0) 

Title: Glasgow's Stereo Image Database of Garments
Abstract:  To provide insight into cloth perception and manipulation with an active binocular robotic vision system, we compiled a database of 80 stereo-pair colour images with corresponding horizontal and vertical disparity maps and mask annotations, for 3D garment point cloud rendering has been created and released. The stereo-image garment database is part of research conducted under the EU-FP7 Clothes Perception and Manipulation (CloPeMa) project and belongs to a wider database collection released through CloPeMa (www.clopema.eu). This database is based on 16 different off-the-shelve garments. Each garment has been imaged in five different pose configurations on the project's binocular robot head. A full copy of the database is made available for scientific research only at https://sites.google.com/site/ugstereodatabase/. 

Title: Jointly Optimizing Placement and Inference for Beacon-based Localization
Abstract:  The ability of robots to estimate their location is crucial for a wide variety of autonomous operations. In settings where GPS is unavailable, measurements of transmissions from fixed beacons provide an effective means of estimating a robot's location as it navigates. The accuracy of such a beacon-based localization system depends both on how beacons are distributed in the environment, and how the robot's location is inferred based on noisy and potentially ambiguous measurements. We propose an approach for making these design decisions automatically and without expert supervision, by explicitly searching for the placement and inference strategies that, together, are optimal for a given environment. Since this search is computationally expensive, our approach encodes beacon placement as a differential neural layer that interfaces with a neural network for inference. This formulation allows us to employ standard techniques for training neural networks to carry out the joint optimization. We evaluate this approach on a variety of environments and settings, and find that it is able to discover designs that enable high localization accuracy. 

Title: Looking at the right stuff: Guided semantic-gaze for autonomous driving
Abstract:  In recent years, predicting driver's focus of attention has been a very active area of research in the autonomous driving community. Unfortunately, existing state-of-the-art techniques achieve this by relying only on human gaze information, thereby ignoring scene semantics. We propose a novel Semantics Augmented GazE (SAGE) detection approach that captures driving specific contextual information, in addition to the raw gaze. Such a combined attention mechanism serves as a powerful tool to focus on the relevant regions in an image frame in order to make driving both safe and efficient. Using this, we design a complete saliency prediction framework - SAGE-Net, which modifies the initial prediction from SAGE by taking into account vital aspects such as distance to objects (depth), ego vehicle speed, and pedestrian crossing intent. Exhaustive experiments conducted through four popular saliency algorithms show that on $\mathbf{49/56\text{ }(87.5\%)}$ cases - considering both the overall dataset and crucial driving scenarios, SAGE outperforms existing techniques without any additional computational overhead during the training process. The augmented dataset along with the relevant code are available as part of the supplementary material. 

Title: Prediction of Highway Lane Changes Based on Prototype Trajectories
Abstract:  The vision of automated driving is to increase both road safety and efficiency, while offering passengers a convenient travel experience. This requires that autonomous systems correctly estimate the current traffic scene and its likely evolution. In highway scenarios early recognition of cut-in maneuvers is essential for risk-aware maneuver planning. In this paper, a statistical approach is proposed, which advantageously utilizes a set of prototypical lane change trajectories to realize both early maneuver detection and uncertainty-aware trajectory prediction for traffic participants. Generation of prototype trajectories from real traffic data is accomplished by Agglomerative Hierarchical Clustering. During clustering, the alignment of the cluster prototypes to each other is optimized and the cohesion of the resulting prototype is limited when two clusters merge. In the prediction stage, the similarity of observed vehicle motion and typical lane change patterns in the data base is evaluated to construct a set of significant features for maneuver classification via Boosted Decision Trees. The future trajectory is predicted combining typical lane change realizations in a mixture model. B-splines based trajectory adaptations guarantee continuity during transition from actually observed to predicted vehicle states. Quantitative evaluation results demonstrate the proposed concept's improved performance for both maneuver and trajectory prediction compared to a previously implemented reference approach. 

Title: Deep Episodic Memory: Encoding, Recalling, and Predicting Episodic Experiences for Robot Action Execution
Abstract:  We present a novel deep neural network architecture for representing robot experiences in an episodic-like memory which facilitates encoding, recalling, and predicting action experiences. Our proposed unsupervised deep episodic memory model 1) encodes observed actions in a latent vector space and, based on this latent encoding, 2) infers most similar episodes previously experienced, 3) reconstructs original episodes, and 4) predicts future frames in an end-to-end fashion. Results show that conceptually similar actions are mapped into the same region of the latent vector space. Based on these results, we introduce an action matching and retrieval mechanism, benchmark its performance on two large-scale action datasets, 20BN-something-something and ActivityNet and evaluate its generalization capability in a real-world scenario on a humanoid robot. 

Title: Controlled Tactile Exploration and Haptic Object Recognition
Abstract:  In this paper we propose a novel method for in-hand object recognition. The method is composed of a grasp stabilization controller and two exploratory behaviours to capture the shape and the softness of an object. Grasp stabilization plays an important role in recognizing objects. First, it prevents the object from slipping and facilitates the exploration of the object. Second, reaching a stable and repeatable position adds robustness to the learning algorithm and increases invariance with respect to the way in which the robot grasps the object. The stable poses are estimated using a Gaussian mixture model (GMM). We present experimental results showing that using our method the classifier can successfully distinguish 30 objects.We also compare our method with a benchmark experiment, in which the grasp stabilization is disabled. We show, with statistical significance, that our method outperforms the benchmark method. 

Title: RRV: A Spatiotemporal Descriptor for Rigid Body Motion Recognition
Abstract:  Motion behaviors of a rigid body can be characterized by a 6-dimensional motion trajectory, which contains position vectors of a reference point on the rigid body and rotations of this rigid body over time. This paper devises a Rotation and Relative Velocity (RRV) descriptor by exploring the local translational and rotational invariants of motion trajectories of rigid bodies, which is insensitive to noise, invariant to rigid transformation and scaling. A flexible metric is also introduced to measure the distance between two RRV descriptors. The RRV descriptor is then applied to characterize motions of a human body skeleton modeled as articulated interconnections of multiple rigid bodies. To illustrate the descriptive ability of the RRV descriptor, we explore it for different rigid body motion recognition tasks. The experimental results on benchmark datasets demonstrate that this simple RRV descriptor outperforms the previous ones regarding recognition accuracy without increasing computational cost. 

Title: Data-Efficient Learning for Sim-to-Real Robotic Grasping using Deep Point Cloud Prediction Networks
Abstract:  Training a deep network policy for robot manipulation is notoriously costly and time consuming as it depends on collecting a significant amount of real world data. To work well in the real world, the policy needs to see many instances of the task, including various object arrangements in the scene as well as variations in object geometry, texture, material, and environmental illumination. In this paper, we propose a method that learns to perform table-top instance grasping of a wide variety of objects while using no real world grasping data, outperforming the baseline using 2.5D shape by 10%. Our method learns 3D point cloud of object, and use that to train a domain-invariant grasping policy. We formulate the learning process as a two-step procedure: 1) Learning a domain-invariant 3D shape representation of objects from about 76K episodes in simulation and about 530 episodes in the real world, where each episode lasts less than a minute and 2) Learning a critic grasping policy in simulation only based on the 3D shape representation from step 1. Our real world data collection in step 1 is both cheaper and faster compared to existing approaches as it only requires taking multiple snapshots of the scene using a RGBD camera. Finally, the learned 3D representation is not specific to grasping, and can potentially be used in other interaction tasks. 

Title: Visual SLAM-based Localization and Navigation for Service Robots: The Pepper Case
Abstract:  We propose a Visual-SLAM based localization and navigation system for service robots. Our system is built on top of the ORB-SLAM monocular system but extended by the inclusion of wheel odometry in the estimation procedures. As a case study, the proposed system is validated using the Pepper robot, whose short-range LIDARs and RGB-D camera do not allow the robot to self-localize in large environments. The localization system is tested in navigation tasks using Pepper in two different environments: a medium-size laboratory, and a large-size hall. 

Title: Enhancing Lattice-based Motion Planning with Introspective Learning and Reasoning
Abstract:  Lattice-based motion planning is a hybrid planning method where a plan made up of discrete actions simultaneously is a physically feasible trajectory. The planning takes both discrete and continuous aspects into account, for example action pre-conditions and collision-free action-duration in the configuration space. Safe motion planing rely on well-calibrated safety-margins for collision checking. The trajectory tracking controller must further be able to reliably execute the motions within this safety margin for the execution to be safe. In this work we are concerned with introspective learning and reasoning about controller performance over time. Normal controller execution of the different actions is learned using reliable and uncertainty-aware machine learning techniques. By correcting for execution bias we manage to substantially reduce the safety margin of motion actions. Reasoning takes place to both verify that the learned models stays safe and to improve collision checking effectiveness in the motion planner by the use of more accurate execution predictions with a smaller safety margin. The presented approach allows for explicit awareness of controller performance under normal circumstances, and timely detection of incorrect performance in abnormal circumstances. Evaluation is made on the nonlinear dynamics of a quadcopter in 3D using simulation. Video: https://youtu.be/STmZduvSUMM 

Title: Learning Object Placements For Relational Instructions by Hallucinating Scene Representations
Abstract:  Robots coexisting with humans in their environment and performing services for them need the ability to interact with them. One particular requirement for such robots is that they are able to understand spatial relations and can place objects in accordance with the spatial relations expressed by their user. In this work, we present a convolutional neural network for estimating pixelwise object placement probabilities for a set of spatial relations from a single input image. During training, our network receives the learning signal by classifying hallucinated high-level scene representations as an auxiliary task. Unlike previous approaches, our method does not require ground truth data for the pixelwise relational probabilities or 3D models of the objects, which significantly expands the applicability in practical applications. Our results obtained using real-world data and human-robot experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in reasoning about the best way to place objects to reproduce a spatial relation. Videos of our experiments can be found at https://youtu.be/zaZkHTWFMKM 

Title: Multimodal Material Classification for Robots using Spectroscopy and High Resolution Texture Imaging
Abstract:  Material recognition can help inform robots about how to properly interact with and manipulate real-world objects. In this paper, we present a multimodal sensing technique, leveraging near-infrared spectroscopy and close-range high resolution texture imaging, that enables robots to estimate the materials of household objects. We release a dataset of high resolution texture images and spectral measurements collected from a mobile manipulator that interacted with 144 household objects. We then present a neural network architecture that learns a compact multimodal representation of spectral measurements and texture images. When generalizing material classification to new objects, we show that this multimodal representation enables a robot to recognize materials with greater performance as compared to prior state-of-the-art approaches. Finally, we present how a robot can combine this high resolution local sensing with images from the robot's head-mounted camera to achieve accurate material classification over a scene of objects on a table. 

Title: Interpretable End-to-end Urban Autonomous Driving with Latent Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Unlike popular modularized framework, end-to-end autonomous driving seeks to solve the perception, decision and control problems in an integrated way, which can be more adapting to new scenarios and easier to generalize at scale. However, existing end-to-end approaches are often lack of interpretability, and can only deal with simple driving tasks like lane keeping. In this paper, we propose an interpretable deep reinforcement learning method for end-to-end autonomous driving, which is able to handle complex urban scenarios. A sequential latent environment model is introduced and learned jointly with the reinforcement learning process. With this latent model, a semantic birdeye mask can be generated, which is enforced to connect with a certain intermediate property in today's modularized framework for the purpose of explaining the behaviors of learned policy. The latent space also significantly reduces the sample complexity of reinforcement learning. Comparison tests with a simulated autonomous car in CARLA show that the performance of our method in urban scenarios with crowded surrounding vehicles dominates many baselines including DQN, DDPG, TD3 and SAC. Moreover, through masked outputs, the learned policy is able to provide a better explanation of how the car reasons about the driving environment. The codes and videos of this work are available at our github repo and project website. 

Title: Robust navigation with tinyML for autonomous mini-vehicles
Abstract:  Autonomous navigation vehicles have rapidly improved thanks to the breakthroughs of Deep Learning. However, scaling autonomous driving to low-power and real-time systems deployed on dynamic environments poses several challenges that prevent their adoption. In this work, we show an end-to-end integration of data, algorithms, and deployment tools that enables the deployment of a family of tiny-CNNs on extra-low-power MCUs for autonomous driving mini-vehicles (image classification task). Our end-to-end environment enables a closed-loop learning system that allows the CNNs (learners) to learn through demonstration by imitating the original computer-vision algorithm (teacher) while doubling the throughput. Thereby, our CNNs gain robustness to lighting conditions and increase their accuracy up to 20% when deployed in the most challenging setup with a very fast-rate camera. Further, we leverage GAP8, a parallel ultra-low-power RISC-V SoC, to meet the real-time requirements. When running a family of CNN for an image classification task, GAP8 reduces their latency by over 20x compared to using an STM32L4 (Cortex-M4) or obtains +21.4% accuracy than an NXP k64f (Cortex-M4) solution with the same energy budget. 

Title: Path Planning in Dynamic Environments using Generative RNNs and Monte Carlo Tree Search
Abstract:  State of the art methods for robotic path planning in dynamic environments, such as crowds or traffic, rely on hand crafted motion models for agents. These models often do not reflect interactions of agents in real world scenarios. To overcome this limitation, this paper proposes an integrated path planning framework using generative Recurrent Neural Networks within a Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS). This approach uses a learnt model of social response to predict crowd dynamics during planning across the action space. This extends our recent work using generative RNNs to learn the relationship between planned robotic actions and the likely response of a crowd. We show that the proposed framework can considerably improve motion prediction accuracy during interactions, allowing more effective path planning. The performance of our method is compared in simulation with existing methods for collision avoidance in a crowd of pedestrians, demonstrating the ability to control future states of nearby individuals. We also conduct preliminary real world tests to validate the effectiveness of our method. 

Title: CAMPs: Learning Context-Specific Abstractions for Efficient Planning in Factored MDPs
Abstract:  Meta-planning, or learning to guide planning from experience, is a promising approach to improving the computational cost of planning. A general meta-planning strategy is to learn to impose constraints on the states considered and actions taken by the agent. We observe that (1) imposing a constraint can induce context-specific independences that render some aspects of the domain irrelevant, and (2) an agent can take advantage of this fact by imposing constraints on its own behavior. These observations lead us to propose the context-specific abstract Markov decision process (CAMP), an abstraction of a factored MDP that affords efficient planning. We then describe how to learn constraints to impose so the CAMP optimizes a trade-off between rewards and computational cost. Our experiments consider five planners across four domains, including robotic navigation among movable obstacles (NAMO), robotic task and motion planning for sequential manipulation, and classical planning. We find planning with learned CAMPs to consistently outperform baselines, including Stilman's NAMO-specific algorithm. Video: https://youtu.be/wTXt6djcAd4 

Title: Learning to Scaffold the Development of Robotic Manipulation Skills
Abstract:  Learning contact-rich, robotic manipulation skills is a challenging problem due to the high-dimensionality of the state and action space as well as uncertainty from noisy sensors and inaccurate motor control. To combat these factors and achieve more robust manipulation, humans actively exploit contact constraints in the environment. By adopting a similar strategy, robots can also achieve more robust manipulation. In this paper, we enable a robot to autonomously modify its environment and thereby discover how to ease manipulation skill learning. Specifically, we provide the robot with fixtures that it can freely place within the environment. These fixtures provide hard constraints that limit the outcome of robot actions. Thereby, they funnel uncertainty from perception and motor control and scaffold manipulation skill learning. We propose a learning system that consists of two learning loops. In the outer loop, the robot positions the fixture in the workspace. In the inner loop, the robot learns a manipulation skill and after a fixed number of episodes, returns the reward to the outer loop. Thereby, the robot is incentivised to place the fixture such that the inner loop quickly achieves a high reward. We demonstrate our framework both in simulation and in the real world on three tasks: peg insertion, wrench manipulation and shallow-depth insertion. We show that manipulation skill learning is dramatically sped up through this way of scaffolding. 

Title: Developmental Reinforcement Learning of Control Policy of a Quadcopter UAV with Thrust Vectoring Rotors
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a novel developmental reinforcement learning-based controller for a quadcopter with thrust vectoring capabilities. This multirotor UAV design has tilt-enabled rotors. It utilizes the rotor force magnitude and direction to achieve the desired state during flight. The control policy of this robot is learned using the policy transfer from the learned controller of the quadcopter (comparatively simple UAV design without thrust vectoring). This approach allows learning a control policy for systems with multiple inputs and multiple outputs. The performance of the learned policy is evaluated by physics-based simulations for the tasks of hovering and way-point navigation. The flight simulations utilize a flight controller based on reinforcement learning without any additional PID components. The results show faster learning with the presented approach as opposed to learning the control policy from scratch for this new UAV design created by modifications in a conventional quadcopter, i.e., the addition of more degrees of freedom (4-actuators in conventional quadcopter to 8-actuators in tilt-rotor quadcopter). We demonstrate the robustness of our learned policy by showing the recovery of the tilt-rotor platform in the simulation from various non-static initial conditions in order to reach a desired state. The developmental policy for the tilt-rotor UAV also showed superior fault tolerance when compared with the policy learned from the scratch. The results show the ability of the presented approach to bootstrap the learned behavior from a simpler system (lower-dimensional action-space) to a more complex robot (comparatively higher-dimensional action-space) and reach better performance faster. 

Title: Motion Reasoning for Goal-Based Imitation Learning
Abstract:  We address goal-based imitation learning, where the aim is to output the symbolic goal from a third-person video demonstration. This enables the robot to plan for execution and reproduce the same goal in a completely different environment. The key challenge is that the goal of a video demonstration is often ambiguous at the level of semantic actions. The human demonstrators might unintentionally achieve certain subgoals in the demonstrations with their actions. Our main contribution is to propose a motion reasoning framework that combines task and motion planning to disambiguate the true intention of the demonstrator in the video demonstration. This allows us to robustly recognize the goals that cannot be disambiguated by previous action-based approaches. We evaluate our approach by collecting a dataset of 96 video demonstrations in a mockup kitchen environment. We show that our motion reasoning plays an important role in recognizing the actual goal of the demonstrator and improves the success rate by over 20%. We further show that by using the automatically inferred goal from the video demonstration, our robot is able to reproduce the same task in a real kitchen environment. 

Title: Partially Observable Planning and Learning for Systems with Non-Uniform Dynamics
Abstract:  We propose a neural network architecture, called TransNet, that combines planning and model learning for solving Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs) with non-uniform system dynamics. The past decade has seen a substantial advancement in solving POMDP problems. However, constructing a suitable POMDP model remains difficult. Recently, neural network architectures have been proposed to alleviate the difficulty in acquiring such models. Although the results are promising, existing architectures restrict the type of system dynamics that can be learned --that is, system dynamics must be the same in all parts of the state space. TransNet relaxes such a restriction. Key to this relaxation is a novel neural network module that classifies the state space into classes and then learns the system dynamics of the different classes. TransNet uses this module together with the overall architecture of QMDP-Net[1] to allow solving POMDPs that have more expressive dynamic models, while maintaining efficient data requirement. Its evaluation on typical benchmarks in robot navigation with initially unknown system and environment models indicates that TransNet substantially out-performs the quality of the generated policies and learning efficiency of the state-of-the-art method QMDP-Net. 

Title: Fast Generation of High Fidelity RGB-D Images by Deep-Learning with Adaptive Convolution
Abstract:  Using the raw data from consumer-level RGB-D cameras as input, we propose a deep-learning based approach to efficiently generate RGB-D images with completed information in high resolution. To process the input images in low resolution with missing regions, new operators for adaptive convolution are introduced in our deep-learning network that consists of three cascaded modules -- the completion module, the refinement module and the super-resolution module. The completion module is based on an architecture of encoder-decoder, where the features of input raw RGB-D will be automatically extracted by the encoding layers of a deep neural-network. The decoding layers are applied to reconstruct the completed depth map, which is followed by a refinement module to sharpen the boundary of different regions. For the super-resolution module, we generate RGB-D images in high resolution by multiple layers for feature extraction and a layer for up-sampling. Benefited from the adaptive convolution operators newly proposed in this paper, our results outperform the existing deep-learning based approaches for RGB-D image complete and super-resolution. As an end-to-end approach, high fidelity RGB-D images can be generated efficiently at the rate of around 21 frames per second. 

Title: MineNav: An Expandable Synthetic Dataset Based on Minecraft for Aircraft Visual Navigation
Abstract:  We propose a simply method to generate high quality synthetic dataset based on open-source game Minecraft includes rendered image, Depth map, surface normal map, and 6-dof camera trajectory. This dataset has a perfect ground-truth generated by plug-in program, and thanks for the large game's community, there is an extremely large number of 3D open-world environment, users can find suitable scenes for shooting and build data sets through it and they can also build scenes in-game. as such, We don't need to worry about manual over fitting caused by too small datasets. what's more, there is also a shader community which We can use to minimize data bias between rendered images and real-images as little as possible. Last but not least, we now provide three tools to generate the data for depth prediction ,surface normal prediction and visual odometry, user can also develop the plug-in module for other vision task like segmentation or optical flow prediction. 

Title: Vision-Based Proprioceptive Sensing for Soft Inflatable Actuators
Abstract:  This paper presents a vision-based sensing approach for a soft linear actuator, which is equipped with an integrated camera. The proposed vision-based sensing pipeline predicts the three-dimensional position of a point of interest on the actuator. To train and evaluate the algorithm, predictions are compared to ground truth data from an external motion capture system. An off-the-shelf distance sensor is integrated in a similar actuator and its performance is used as a baseline for comparison. The resulting sensing pipeline runs at 40 Hz in real-time on a standard laptop and is additionally used for closed loop elongation control of the actuator. It is shown that the approach can achieve comparable accuracy to the distance sensor. 

Title: A First Principles Approach for Data-Efficient System Identification of Spring-Rod Systems via Differentiable Physics Engines
Abstract:  We propose a novel differentiable physics engine for system identification of complex spring-rod assemblies. Unlike black-box data-driven methods for learning the evolution of a dynamical system and its parameters, we modularize the design of our engine using a discrete form of the governing equations of motion, similar to a traditional physics engine. We further reduce the dimension from 3D to 1D for each module, which allows efficient learning of system parameters using linear regression. As a side benefit, the regression parameters correspond to physical quantities, such as spring stiffness or the mass of the rod, making the pipeline explainable. The approach significantly reduces the amount of training data required, and also avoids iterative identification of data sampling and model training. We compare the performance of the proposed engine with previous solutions, and demonstrate its efficacy on tensegrity systems, such as NASA's icosahedron. 

Title: PyRep: Bringing V-REP to Deep Robot Learning
Abstract:  PyRep is a toolkit for robot learning research, built on top of the virtual robotics experimentation platform (V-REP). Through a series of modifications and additions, we have created a tailored version of V-REP built with robot learning in mind. The new PyRep toolkit offers three improvements: (1) a simple and flexible API for robot control and scene manipulation, (2) a new rendering engine, and (3) speed boosts upwards of 10,000x in comparison to the previous Python Remote API. With these improvements, we believe PyRep is the ideal toolkit to facilitate rapid prototyping of learning algorithms in the areas of reinforcement learning, imitation learning, state estimation, mapping, and computer vision. 

Title: MagNet: Discovering Multi-agent Interaction Dynamics using Neural Network
Abstract:  We present the MagNet, a neural network-based multi-agent interaction model to discover the governing dynamics and predict evolution of a complex multi-agent system from observations. We formulate a multi-agent system as a coupled non-linear network with a generic ordinary differential equation (ODE) based state evolution, and develop a neural network-based realization of its time-discretized model. MagNet is trained to discover the core dynamics of a multi-agent system from observations, and tuned on-line to learn agent-specific parameters of the dynamics to ensure accurate prediction even when physical or relational attributes of agents, or number of agents change. We evaluate MagNet on a point-mass system in two-dimensional space, Kuramoto phase synchronization dynamics and predator-swarm interaction dynamics demonstrating orders of magnitude improvement in prediction accuracy over traditional deep learning models. 

Title: Cityscapes-Panoptic-Parts and PASCAL-Panoptic-Parts datasets for Scene Understanding
Abstract:  In this technical report, we present two novel datasets for image scene understanding. Both datasets have annotations compatible with panoptic segmentation and additionally they have part-level labels for selected semantic classes. This report describes the format of the two datasets, the annotation protocols, the merging strategies, and presents the datasets statistics. The datasets labels together with code for processing and visualization will be published at https://github.com/tue-mps/panoptic_parts. 

Title: Real-Time, Highly Accurate Robotic Grasp Detection using Fully Convolutional Neural Networks with High-Resolution Images
Abstract:  Robotic grasp detection for novel objects is a challenging task, but for the last few years, deep learning based approaches have achieved remarkable performance improvements, up to 96.1% accuracy, with RGB-D data. In this paper, we propose fully convolutional neural network (FCNN) based methods for robotic grasp detection. Our methods also achieved state-of-the-art detection accuracy (up to 96.6%) with state-of- the-art real-time computation time for high-resolution images (6-20ms per 360x360 image) on Cornell dataset. Due to FCNN, our proposed method can be applied to images with any size for detecting multigrasps on multiobjects. Proposed methods were evaluated using 4-axis robot arm with small parallel gripper and RGB-D camera for grasping challenging small, novel objects. With accurate vision-robot coordinate calibration through our proposed learning-based, fully automatic approach, our proposed method yielded 90% success rate. 

Title: Few-Shot Goal Inference for Visuomotor Learning and Planning
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning and planning methods require an objective or reward function that encodes the desired behavior. Yet, in practice, there is a wide range of scenarios where an objective is difficult to provide programmatically, such as tasks with visual observations involving unknown object positions or deformable objects. In these cases, prior methods use engineered problem-specific solutions, e.g., by instrumenting the environment with additional sensors to measure a proxy for the objective. Such solutions require a significant engineering effort on a per-task basis, and make it impractical for robots to continuously learn complex skills outside of laboratory settings. We aim to find a more general and scalable solution for specifying goals for robot learning in unconstrained environments. To that end, we formulate the few-shot objective learning problem, where the goal is to learn a task objective from only a few example images of successful end states for that task. We propose a simple solution to this problem: meta-learn a classifier that can recognize new goals from a few examples. We show how this approach can be used with both model-free reinforcement learning and visual model-based planning and show results in three domains: rope manipulation from images in simulation, visual navigation in a simulated 3D environment, and object arrangement into user-specified configurations on a real robot. 

Title: Deep Spatiotemporal Models for Robust Proprioceptive Terrain Classification
Abstract:  Terrain classification is a critical component of any autonomous mobile robot system operating in unknown real-world environments. Over the years, several proprioceptive terrain classification techniques have been introduced to increase robustness or act as a fallback for traditional vision based approaches. However, they lack widespread adaptation due to various factors that include inadequate accuracy, robustness and slow run-times. In this paper, we use vehicle-terrain interaction sounds as a proprioceptive modality and propose a deep Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM) based recurrent model that captures both the spatial and temporal dynamics of such a problem, thereby overcoming these past limitations. Our model consists of a new Convolution Neural Network (CNN) architecture that learns deep spatial features, complemented with LSTM units that learn complex temporal dynamics. Experiments on two extensive datasets collected with different microphones on various indoor and outdoor terrains demonstrate state-of-the-art performance compared to existing techniques. We additionally evaluate the performance in adverse acoustic conditions with high ambient noise and propose a noise-aware training scheme that enables learning of more generalizable models that are essential for robust real-world deployments. 

Title: Optimal Camera Placement to measure Distances Conservativly Regarding Static and Dynamic Obstacles
Abstract:  In modern production facilities industrial robots and humans are supposed to interact sharing a common working area. In order to avoid collisions, the distances between objects need to be measured conservatively which can be done by a camera network. To estimate the acquired distance, unmodelled objects, e.g., an interacting human, need to be modelled and distinguished from premodelled objects like workbenches or robots by image processing such as the background subtraction method. The quality of such an approach massively depends on the settings of the camera network, that is the positions and orientations of the individual cameras. Of particular interest in this context is the minimization of the error of the distance using the objects modelled by the background subtraction method instead of the real objects. Here, we show how this minimization can be formulated as an abstract optimization problem. Moreover, we state various aspects on the implementation as well as reasons for the selection of a suitable optimization method, analyze the complexity of the proposed method and present a basic version used for extensive experiments. 

Title: Semantic Understanding of Foggy Scenes with Purely Synthetic Data
Abstract:  This work addresses the problem of semantic scene understanding under foggy road conditions. Although marked progress has been made in semantic scene understanding over the recent years, it is mainly concentrated on clear weather outdoor scenes. Extending semantic segmentation methods to adverse weather conditions like fog is crucially important for outdoor applications such as self-driving cars. In this paper, we propose a novel method, which uses purely synthetic data to improve the performance on unseen real-world foggy scenes captured in the streets of Zurich and its surroundings. Our results highlight the potential and power of photo-realistic synthetic images for training and especially fine-tuning deep neural nets. Our contributions are threefold, 1) we created a purely synthetic, high-quality foggy dataset of 25,000 unique outdoor scenes, that we call Foggy Synscapes and plan to release publicly 2) we show that with this data we outperform previous approaches on real-world foggy test data 3) we show that a combination of our data and previously used data can even further improve the performance on real-world foggy data. 

Title: Controlling Robot Morphology from Incomplete Measurements
Abstract:  Mobile robots with complex morphology are essential for traversing rough terrains in Urban Search & Rescue missions (USAR). Since teleoperation of the complex morphology causes high cognitive load of the operator, the morphology is controlled autonomously. The autonomous control measures the robot state and surrounding terrain which is usually only partially observable, and thus the data are often incomplete. We marginalize the control over the missing measurements and evaluate an explicit safety condition. If the safety condition is violated, tactile terrain exploration by the body-mounted robotic arm gathers the missing data. 

Title: Hierarchical Control for Bipedal Locomotion using Central Pattern Generators and Neural Networks
Abstract:  The complexity of bipedal locomotion may be attributed to the difficulty in synchronizing joint movements while at the same time achieving high-level objectives such as walking in a particular direction. Artificial central pattern generators (CPGs) can produce synchronized joint movements and have been used in the past for bipedal locomotion. However, most existing CPG-based approaches do not address the problem of high-level control explicitly. We propose a novel hierarchical control mechanism for bipedal locomotion where an optimized CPG network is used for joint control and a neural network acts as a high-level controller for modulating the CPG network. By separating motion generation from motion modulation, the high-level controller does not need to control individual joints directly but instead can develop to achieve a higher goal using a low-dimensional control signal. The feasibility of the hierarchical controller is demonstrated through simulation experiments using the Neuro-Inspired Companion (NICO) robot. Experimental results demonstrate the controller's ability to function even without the availability of an exact robot model. 

Title: A Markerless Deep Learning-based 6 Degrees of Freedom PoseEstimation for with Mobile Robots using RGB Data
Abstract:  Augmented Reality has been subject to various integration efforts within industries due to its ability to enhance human machine interaction and understanding. Neural networks have achieved remarkable results in areas of computer vision, which bear great potential to assist and facilitate an enhanced Augmented Reality experience. However, most neural networks are computationally intensive and demand huge processing power thus, are not suitable for deployment on Augmented Reality devices. In this work we propose a method to deploy state of the art neural networks for real time 3D object localization on augmented reality devices. As a result, we provide a more automated method of calibrating the AR devices with mobile robotic systems. To accelerate the calibration process and enhance user experience, we focus on fast 2D detection approaches which are extracting the 3D pose of the object fast and accurately by using only 2D input. The results are implemented into an Augmented Reality application for intuitive robot control and sensor data visualization. For the 6D annotation of 2D images, we developed an annotation tool, which is, to our knowledge, the first open source tool to be available. We achieve feasible results which are generally applicable to any AR device thus making this work promising for further research in combining high demanding neural networks with Internet of Things devices. 

Title: Integrating Task-Motion Planning with Reinforcement Learning for Robust Decision Making in Mobile Robots
Abstract:  Task-motion planning (TMP) addresses the problem of efficiently generating executable and low-cost task plans in a discrete space such that the (initially unknown) action costs are determined by motion plans in a corresponding continuous space. However, a task-motion plan can be sensitive to unexpected domain uncertainty and changes, leading to suboptimal behaviors or execution failures. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, TMP-RL, which is an integration of TMP and reinforcement learning (RL) from the execution experience, to solve the problem of robust task-motion planning in dynamic and uncertain domains. TMP-RL features two nested planning-learning loops. In the inner TMP loop, the robot generates a low-cost, feasible task-motion plan by iteratively planning in the discrete space and updating relevant action costs evaluated by the motion planner in continuous space. In the outer loop, the plan is executed, and the robot learns from the execution experience via model-free RL, to further improve its task-motion plans. RL in the outer loop is more accurate to the current domain but also more expensive, and using less costly task and motion planning leads to a jump-start for learning in the real world. Our approach is evaluated on a mobile service robot conducting navigation tasks in an office area. Results show that TMP-RL approach significantly improves adaptability and robustness (in comparison to TMP methods) and leads to rapid convergence (in comparison to task planning (TP)-RL methods). We also show that TMP-RL can reuse learned values to smoothly adapt to new scenarios during long-term deployments. 

Title: Sparse Depth Sensing for Resource-Constrained Robots
Abstract:  We consider the case in which a robot has to navigate in an unknown environment but does not have enough on-board power or payload to carry a traditional depth sensor (e.g., a 3D lidar) and thus can only acquire a few (point-wise) depth measurements. We address the following question: is it possible to reconstruct the geometry of an unknown environment using sparse and incomplete depth measurements? Reconstruction from incomplete data is not possible in general, but when the robot operates in man-made environments, the depth exhibits some regularity (e.g., many planar surfaces with only a few edges); we leverage this regularity to infer depth from a small number of measurements. Our first contribution is a formulation of the depth reconstruction problem that bridges robot perception with the compressive sensing literature in signal processing. The second contribution includes a set of formal results that ascertain the exactness and stability of the depth reconstruction in 2D and 3D problems, and completely characterize the geometry of the profiles that we can reconstruct. Our third contribution is a set of practical algorithms for depth reconstruction: our formulation directly translates into algorithms for depth estimation based on convex programming. In real-world problems, these convex programs are very large and general-purpose solvers are relatively slow. For this reason, we discuss ad-hoc solvers that enable fast depth reconstruction in real problems. The last contribution is an extensive experimental evaluation in 2D and 3D problems, including Monte Carlo runs on simulated instances and testing on multiple real datasets. Empirical results confirm that the proposed approach ensures accurate depth reconstruction, outperforms interpolation-based strategies, and performs well even when the assumption of structured environment is violated. 

Title: Let's Take This Online: Adapting Scene Coordinate Regression Network Predictions for Online RGB-D Camera Relocalisation
Abstract:  Many applications require a camera to be relocalised online, without expensive offline training on the target scene. Whilst both keyframe and sparse keypoint matching methods can be used online, the former often fail away from the training trajectory, and the latter can struggle in textureless regions. By contrast, scene coordinate regression (SCoRe) methods generalise to novel poses and can leverage dense correspondences to improve robustness, and recent work has shown how to adapt SCoRe forests between scenes, allowing their state-of-the-art performance to be leveraged online. However, because they use features hand-crafted for indoor use, they do not generalise well to harder outdoor scenes. Whilst replacing the forest with a neural network and learning suitable features for outdoor use is possible, the techniques used to adapt forests between scenes are unfortunately harder to transfer to a network context. In this paper, we address this by proposing a novel way of leveraging a network trained on one scene to predict points in another scene. Our approach replaces the appearance clustering performed by the branching structure of a regression forest with a two-step process that first uses the network to predict points in the original scene, and then uses these predicted points to look up clusters of points from the new scene. We show experimentally that our online approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on both the 7-Scenes and Cambridge Landmarks datasets, whilst running in under 300ms, making it highly effective in live scenarios. 

Title: An Energy Minimization Approach to 3D Non-Rigid Deformable Surface Estimation Using RGBD Data
Abstract:  We propose an algorithm that uses energy mini- mization to estimate the current configuration of a non-rigid object. Our approach utilizes an RGBD image to calculate corresponding SURF features, depth, and boundary informa- tion. We do not use predetermined features, thus enabling our system to operate on unmodified objects. Our approach relies on a 3D nonlinear energy minimization framework to solve for the configuration using a semi-implicit scheme. Results show various scenarios of dynamic posters and shirts in different configurations to illustrate the performance of the method. In particular, we show that our method is able to estimate the configuration of a textureless nonrigid object with no correspondences available. 

Title: Using Reinforcement Learning to Herd a Robotic Swarm to a Target Distribution
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a reinforcement learning approach to designing a control policy for a "leader'' agent that herds a swarm of "follower'' agents, via repulsive interactions, as quickly as possible to a target probability distribution over a strongly connected graph. The leader control policy is a function of the swarm distribution, which evolves over time according to a mean-field model in the form of an ordinary difference equation. The dependence of the policy on agent populations at each graph vertex, rather than on individual agent activity, simplifies the observations required by the leader and enables the control strategy to scale with the number of agents. Two Temporal-Difference learning algorithms, SARSA and Q-Learning, are used to generate the leader control policy based on the follower agent distribution and the leader's location on the graph. A simulation environment corresponding to a grid graph with 4 vertices was used to train and validate the control policies for follower agent populations ranging from 10 to 100. Finally, the control policies trained on 100 simulated agents were used to successfully redistribute a physical swarm of 10 small robots to a target distribution among 4 spatial regions. 

Title: DualSMC: Tunneling Differentiable Filtering and Planning under Continuous POMDPs
Abstract:  A major difficulty of solving continuous POMDPs is to infer the multi-modal distribution of the unobserved true states and to make the planning algorithm dependent on the perceived uncertainty. We cast POMDP filtering and planning problems as two closely related Sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) processes, one over the real states and the other over the future optimal trajectories, and combine the merits of these two parts in a new model named the DualSMC network. In particular, we first introduce an adversarial particle filter that leverages the adversarial relationship between its internal components. Based on the filtering results, we then propose a planning algorithm that extends the previous SMC planning approach [Piche et al., 2018] to continuous POMDPs with an uncertainty-dependent policy. Crucially, not only can DualSMC handle complex observations such as image input but also it remains highly interpretable. It is shown to be effective in three continuous POMDP domains: the floor positioning domain, the 3D light-dark navigation domain, and a modified Reacher domain. 

Title: End-to-End Learning of Semantic Grasping
Abstract:  We consider the task of semantic robotic grasping, in which a robot picks up an object of a user-specified class using only monocular images. Inspired by the two-stream hypothesis of visual reasoning, we present a semantic grasping framework that learns object detection, classification, and grasp planning in an end-to-end fashion. A "ventral stream" recognizes object class while a "dorsal stream" simultaneously interprets the geometric relationships necessary to execute successful grasps. We leverage the autonomous data collection capabilities of robots to obtain a large self-supervised dataset for training the dorsal stream, and use semi-supervised label propagation to train the ventral stream with only a modest amount of human supervision. We experimentally show that our approach improves upon grasping systems whose components are not learned end-to-end, including a baseline method that uses bounding box detection. Furthermore, we show that jointly training our model with auxiliary data consisting of non-semantic grasping data, as well as semantically labeled images without grasp actions, has the potential to substantially improve semantic grasping performance. 

Title: Learning Predictive Models From Observation and Interaction
Abstract:  Learning predictive models from interaction with the world allows an agent, such as a robot, to learn about how the world works, and then use this learned model to plan coordinated sequences of actions to bring about desired outcomes. However, learning a model that captures the dynamics of complex skills represents a major challenge: if the agent needs a good model to perform these skills, it might never be able to collect the experience on its own that is required to learn these delicate and complex behaviors. Instead, we can imagine augmenting the training set with observational data of other agents, such as humans. Such data is likely more plentiful, but represents a different embodiment. For example, videos of humans might show a robot how to use a tool, but (i) are not annotated with suitable robot actions, and (ii) contain a systematic distributional shift due to the embodiment differences between humans and robots. We address the first challenge by formulating the corresponding graphical model and treating the action as an observed variable for the interaction data and an unobserved variable for the observation data, and the second challenge by using a domain-dependent prior. In addition to interaction data, our method is able to leverage videos of passive observations in a driving dataset and a dataset of robotic manipulation videos. A robotic planning agent equipped with our method can learn to use tools in a tabletop robotic manipulation setting by observing humans without ever seeing a robotic video of tool use. 

Title: Detection-by-Localization: Maintenance-Free Change Object Detector
Abstract:  Recent researches demonstrate that self-localization performance is a very useful measure of likelihood-of-change (LoC) for change detection. In this paper, this "detection-by-localization" scheme is studied in a novel generalized task of object-level change detection. In our framework, a given query image is segmented into object-level subimages (termed "scene parts"), which are then converted to subimage-level pixel-wise LoC maps via the detection-by-localization scheme. Our approach models a self-localization system as a ranking function, outputting a ranked list of reference images, without requiring relevance score. Thanks to this new setting, we can generalize our approach to a broad class of self-localization systems. Our ranking based self-localization model allows to fuse self-localization results from different modalities via an unsupervised rank fusion derived from a field of multi-modal information retrieval (MMR). 

Title: VisionGuard: Runtime Detection of Adversarial Inputs to Perception Systems
Abstract:  Deep neural network (DNN) models have proven to be vulnerable to adversarial attacks. In this paper, we propose VisionGuard, a novel attack- and dataset-agnostic and computationally-light defense mechanism for adversarial inputs to DNN-based perception systems. In particular, VisionGuard relies on the observation that adversarial images are sensitive to lossy compression transformations. Specifically, to determine if an image is adversarial, VisionGuard checks if the output of the target classifier on a given input image changes significantly after feeding it a transformed version of the image under investigation. Moreover, we show that VisionGuard is computationally-light both at runtime and design-time which makes it suitable for real-time applications that may also involve large-scale image domains. To highlight this, we demonstrate the efficiency of VisionGuard on ImageNet, a task that is computationally challenging for the majority of relevant defenses. Finally, we include extensive comparative experiments on the MNIST, CIFAR10, and ImageNet datasets that show that VisionGuard outperforms existing defenses in terms of scalability and detection performance. 

Title: A Graph Attention Spatio-temporal Convolutional Networks for 3D Human Pose Estimation in Video
Abstract:  3D pose estimation in video benefits from both temporal and spatial information. Spatiotemporal information can help tackle occlusion and depth ambiguities, which are outstanding problems. Previous methods focused more on time consistency and did not propose an effective way combined with spatial semantics. In this work, we improve the learning of kinematic constraints in the human skeleton; namely posture, 2nd order joint relations, and symmetry. We do this by modeling both local and global spatial information via attention mechanisms. Also, importantly, we carefully design the interleaving of spatial information with temporal information to achieve a synergistic effect. We contribute a simple and effective graph attention spatio-temporal convolutional network (GAST-Net) that comprises of interleaved temporal convolutional and graph attention blocks. Local 2nd order and symmetric constraints can mitigate depth ambiguities for these joints with only one first-order neighbor (like ankle et al.), while global posture semantics can more effectively combine time information to address self-occlusion. Experiments on two challenging benchmark datasets, Human3.6M and HumanEva-I, show that we achieve 4.1% and 8.2% improvements. 

Title: Stereo R-CNN based 3D Object Detection for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  We propose a 3D object detection method for autonomous driving by fully exploiting the sparse and dense, semantic and geometry information in stereo imagery. Our method, called Stereo R-CNN, extends Faster R-CNN for stereo inputs to simultaneously detect and associate object in left and right images. We add extra branches after stereo Region Proposal Network (RPN) to predict sparse keypoints, viewpoints, and object dimensions, which are combined with 2D left-right boxes to calculate a coarse 3D object bounding box. We then recover the accurate 3D bounding box by a region-based photometric alignment using left and right RoIs. Our method does not require depth input and 3D position supervision, however, outperforms all existing fully supervised image-based methods. Experiments on the challenging KITTI dataset show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art stereo-based method by around 30% AP on both 3D detection and 3D localization tasks. Code has been released at https://github.com/HKUST-Aerial-Robotics/Stereo-RCNN. 

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning for Human-Like Driving Policies in Collision Avoidance Tasks of Self-Driving Cars
Abstract:  The technological and scientific challenges involved in the development of autonomous vehicles (AVs) are currently of primary interest for many automobile companies and research labs. However, human-controlled vehicles are likely to remain on the roads for several decades to come and may share with AVs the traffic environments of the future. In such mixed environments, AVs should deploy human-like driving policies and negotiation skills to enable smooth traffic flow. To generate automated human-like driving policies, we introduce a model-free, deep reinforcement learning approach to imitate an experienced human driver's behavior. We study a static obstacle avoidance task on a two-lane highway road in simulation (Unity). Our control algorithm receives a stochastic feedback signal from two sources: a model-driven part, encoding simple driving rules, such as lane-keeping and speed control, and a stochastic, data-driven part, incorporating human expert knowledge from driving data. To assess the similarity between machine and human driving, we model distributions of track position and speed as Gaussian processes. We demonstrate that our approach leads to human-like driving policies. 

Title: Towards Visual Ego-motion Learning in Robots
Abstract:  Many model-based Visual Odometry (VO) algorithms have been proposed in the past decade, often restricted to the type of camera optics, or the underlying motion manifold observed. We envision robots to be able to learn and perform these tasks, in a minimally supervised setting, as they gain more experience. To this end, we propose a fully trainable solution to visual ego-motion estimation for varied camera optics. We propose a visual ego-motion learning architecture that maps observed optical flow vectors to an ego-motion density estimate via a Mixture Density Network (MDN). By modeling the architecture as a Conditional Variational Autoencoder (C-VAE), our model is able to provide introspective reasoning and prediction for ego-motion induced scene-flow. Additionally, our proposed model is especially amenable to bootstrapped ego-motion learning in robots where the supervision in ego-motion estimation for a particular camera sensor can be obtained from standard navigation-based sensor fusion strategies (GPS/INS and wheel-odometry fusion). Through experiments, we show the utility of our proposed approach in enabling the concept of self-supervised learning for visual ego-motion estimation in autonomous robots. 

Title: Drive Video Analysis for the Detection of Traffic Near-Miss Incidents
Abstract:  Because of their recent introduction, self-driving cars and advanced driver assistance system (ADAS) equipped vehicles have had little opportunity to learn, the dangerous traffic (including near-miss incident) scenarios that provide normal drivers with strong motivation to drive safely. Accordingly, as a means of providing learning depth, this paper presents a novel traffic database that contains information on a large number of traffic near-miss incidents that were obtained by mounting driving recorders in more than 100 taxis over the course of a decade. The study makes the following two main contributions: (i) In order to assist automated systems in detecting near-miss incidents based on database instances, we created a large-scale traffic near-miss incident database (NIDB) that consists of video clip of dangerous events captured by monocular driving recorders. (ii) To illustrate the applicability of NIDB traffic near-miss incidents, we provide two primary database-related improvements: parameter fine-tuning using various near-miss scenes from NIDB, and foreground/background separation into motion representation. Then, using our new database in conjunction with a monocular driving recorder, we developed a near-miss recognition method that provides automated systems with a performance level that is comparable to a human-level understanding of near-miss incidents (64.5% vs. 68.4% at near-miss recognition, 61.3% vs. 78.7% at near-miss detection). 

Title: Learning to Identify Object Instances by Touch: Tactile Recognition via Multimodal Matching
Abstract:  Much of the literature on robotic perception focuses on the visual modality. Vision provides a global observation of a scene, making it broadly useful. However, in the domain of robotic manipulation, vision alone can sometimes prove inadequate: in the presence of occlusions or poor lighting, visual object identification might be difficult. The sense of touch can provide robots with an alternative mechanism for recognizing objects. In this paper, we study the problem of touch-based instance recognition. We propose a novel framing of the problem as multi-modal recognition: the goal of our system is to recognize, given a visual and tactile observation, whether or not these observations correspond to the same object. To our knowledge, our work is the first to address this type of multi-modal instance recognition problem on such a large-scale with our analysis spanning 98 different objects. We employ a robot equipped with two GelSight touch sensors, one on each finger, and a self-supervised, autonomous data collection procedure to collect a dataset of tactile observations and images. Our experimental results show that it is possible to accurately recognize object instances by touch alone, including instances of novel objects that were never seen during training. Our learned model outperforms other methods on this complex task, including that of human volunteers. 

Title: Introducing the Simulated Flying Shapes and Simulated Planar Manipulator Datasets
Abstract:  We release two artificial datasets, Simulated Flying Shapes and Simulated Planar Manipulator that allow to test the learning ability of video processing systems. In particular, the dataset is meant as a tool which allows to easily assess the sanity of deep neural network models that aim to encode, reconstruct or predict video frame sequences. The datasets each consist of 90000 videos. The Simulated Flying Shapes dataset comprises scenes showing two objects of equal shape (rectangle, triangle and circle) and size in which one object approaches its counterpart. The Simulated Planar Manipulator shows a 3-DOF planar manipulator that executes a pick-and-place task in which it has to place a size-varying circle on a squared platform. Different from other widely used datasets such as moving MNIST [1], [2], the two presented datasets involve goal-oriented tasks (e.g. the manipulator grasping an object and placing it on a platform), rather than showing random movements. This makes our datasets more suitable for testing prediction capabilities and the learning of sophisticated motions by a machine learning model. This technical document aims at providing an introduction into the usage of both datasets. 

Title: Dynamic Gesture Recognition by Using CNNs and Star RGB: a Temporal Information Condensation
Abstract:  Due to the advance of technologies, machines are increasingly present in people's daily lives. Thus, there has been more and more effort to develop interfaces, such as dynamic gestures, that provide an intuitive way of interaction. Currently, the most common trend is to use multimodal data, as depth and skeleton information, to enable dynamic gesture recognition. However, using only color information would be more interesting, since RGB cameras are usually available in almost every public place, and could be used for gesture recognition without the need of installing other equipment. The main problem with such approach is the difficulty of representing spatio-temporal information using just color. With this in mind, we propose a technique capable of condensing a dynamic gesture, shown in a video, in just one RGB image. We call this technique star RGB. This image is then passed to a classifier formed by two Resnet CNNs, a soft-attention ensemble, and a fully connected layer, which indicates the class of the gesture present in the input video. Experiments were carried out using both Montalbano and GRIT datasets. For Montalbano dataset, the proposed approach achieved an accuracy of 94.58%. Such result reaches the state-of-the-art when considering this dataset and only color information. Regarding the GRIT dataset, our proposal achieves more than 98% of accuracy, recall, precision, and F1-score, outperforming the reference approach by more than 6%. 

Title: Vizarel: A System to Help Better Understand RL Agents
Abstract:  Visualization tools for supervised learning have allowed users to interpret, introspect, and gain intuition for the successes and failures of their models. While reinforcement learning practitioners ask many of the same questions, existing tools are not applicable to the RL setting. In this work, we describe our initial attempt at constructing a prototype of these ideas, through identifying possible features that such a system should encapsulate. Our design is motivated by envisioning the system to be a platform on which to experiment with interpretable reinforcement learning. 

Title: OmniSLAM: Omnidirectional Localization and Dense Mapping for Wide-baseline Multi-camera Systems
Abstract:  In this paper, we present an omnidirectional localization and dense mapping system for a wide-baseline multiview stereo setup with ultra-wide field-of-view (FOV) fisheye cameras, which has a 360 degrees coverage of stereo observations of the environment. For more practical and accurate reconstruction, we first introduce improved and light-weighted deep neural networks for the omnidirectional depth estimation, which are faster and more accurate than the existing networks. Second, we integrate our omnidirectional depth estimates into the visual odometry (VO) and add a loop closing module for global consistency. Using the estimated depth map, we reproject keypoints onto each other view, which leads to a better and more efficient feature matching process. Finally, we fuse the omnidirectional depth maps and the estimated rig poses into the truncated signed distance function (TSDF) volume to acquire a 3D map. We evaluate our method on synthetic datasets with ground-truth and real-world sequences of challenging environments, and the extensive experiments show that the proposed system generates excellent reconstruction results in both synthetic and real-world environments. 

Title: Manipulation by Feel: Touch-Based Control with Deep Predictive Models
Abstract:  Touch sensing is widely acknowledged to be important for dexterous robotic manipulation, but exploiting tactile sensing for continuous, non-prehensile manipulation is challenging. General purpose control techniques that are able to effectively leverage tactile sensing as well as accurate physics models of contacts and forces remain largely elusive, and it is unclear how to even specify a desired behavior in terms of tactile percepts. In this paper, we take a step towards addressing these issues by combining high-resolution tactile sensing with data-driven modeling using deep neural network dynamics models. We propose deep tactile MPC, a framework for learning to perform tactile servoing from raw tactile sensor inputs, without manual supervision. We show that this method enables a robot equipped with a GelSight-style tactile sensor to manipulate a ball, analog stick, and 20-sided die, learning from unsupervised autonomous interaction and then using the learned tactile predictive model to reposition each object to user-specified configurations, indicated by a goal tactile reading. Videos, visualizations and the code are available here: https://sites.google.com/view/deeptactilempc 

Title: Improvements to Target-Based 3D LiDAR to Camera Calibration
Abstract:  The homogeneous transformation between a LiDAR and monocular camera is required for sensor fusion tasks, such as SLAM. While determining such a transformation is not considered glamorous in any sense of the word, it is nonetheless crucial for many modern autonomous systems. Indeed, an error of a few degrees in rotation or a few percent in translation can lead to 20 cm translation errors at a distance of 5 m when overlaying a LiDAR image on a camera image. The biggest impediments to determining the transformation accurately are the relative sparsity of LiDAR point clouds and systematic errors in their distance measurements. This paper proposes (1) the use of targets of known dimension and geometry to ameliorate target pose estimation in face of the quantization and systematic errors inherent in a LiDAR image of a target, and (2) a fitting method for the LiDAR to monocular camera transformation that fundamentally assumes the camera image data is the most accurate information in one's possession. 

Title: Sparse tree search optimality guarantees in POMDPs with continuous observation spaces
Abstract:  Partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs) with continuous state and observation spaces have powerful flexibility for representing real-world decision and control problems but are notoriously difficult to solve. Recent online sampling-based algorithms that use observation likelihood weighting have shown unprecedented effectiveness in domains with continuous observation spaces. However there has been no formal theoretical justification for this technique. This work offers such a justification, proving that a simplified algorithm, partially observable weighted sparse sampling (POWSS), will estimate Q-values accurately with high probability and can be made to perform arbitrarily near the optimal solution by increasing computational power. 

Title: Robotic Search & Rescue via Online Multi-task Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning (RL) is a general and well-known method that a robot can use to learn an optimal control policy to solve a particular task. We would like to build a versatile robot that can learn multiple tasks, but using RL for each of them would be prohibitively expensive in terms of both time and wear-and-tear on the robot. To remedy this problem, we use the Policy Gradient Efficient Lifelong Learning Algorithm (PG-ELLA), an online multi-task RL algorithm that enables the robot to efficiently learn multiple consecutive tasks by sharing knowledge between these tasks to accelerate learning and improve performance. We implemented and evaluated three RL methods--Q-learning, policy gradient RL, and PG-ELLA--on a ground robot whose task is to find a target object in an environment under different surface conditions. In this paper, we discuss our implementations as well as present an empirical analysis of their learning performance. 

Title: Efficient Model Learning for Human-Robot Collaborative Tasks
Abstract:  We present a framework for learning human user models from joint-action demonstrations that enables the robot to compute a robust policy for a collaborative task with a human. The learning takes place completely automatically, without any human intervention. First, we describe the clustering of demonstrated action sequences into different human types using an unsupervised learning algorithm. These demonstrated sequences are also used by the robot to learn a reward function that is representative for each type, through the employment of an inverse reinforcement learning algorithm. The learned model is then used as part of a Mixed Observability Markov Decision Process formulation, wherein the human type is a partially observable variable. With this framework, we can infer, either offline or online, the human type of a new user that was not included in the training set, and can compute a policy for the robot that will be aligned to the preference of this new user and will be robust to deviations of the human actions from prior demonstrations. Finally we validate the approach using data collected in human subject experiments, and conduct proof-of-concept demonstrations in which a person performs a collaborative task with a small industrial robot. 

Title: Enhanced Human-Machine Interaction by Combining Proximity Sensing with Global Perception
Abstract:  The raise of collaborative robotics has led to wide range of sensor technologies to detect human-machine interactions: at short distances, proximity sensors detect nontactile gestures virtually occlusion-free, while at medium distances, active depth sensors are frequently used to infer human intentions. We describe an optical system for large workspaces to capture human pose based on a single panoramic color camera. Despite the two-dimensional input, our system is able to predict metric 3D pose information over larger field of views than would be possible with active depth measurement cameras. We merge posture context with proximity perception to reduce occlusions and improve accuracy at long distances. We demonstrate the capabilities of our system in two use cases involving multiple humans and robots. 

Title: Controlling an Autonomous Vehicle with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  We present a control approach for autonomous vehicles based on deep reinforcement learning. A neural network agent is trained to map its estimated state to acceleration and steering commands given the objective of reaching a specific target state while considering detected obstacles. Learning is performed using state-of-the-art proximal policy optimization in combination with a simulated environment. Training from scratch takes five to nine hours. The resulting agent is evaluated within simulation and subsequently applied to control a full-size research vehicle. For this, the autonomous exploration of a parking lot is considered, including turning maneuvers and obstacle avoidance. Altogether, this work is among the first examples to successfully apply deep reinforcement learning to a real vehicle. 

Title: 2D LiDAR Map Prediction via Estimating Motion Flow with GRU
Abstract:  It is a significant problem to predict the 2D LiDAR map at next moment for robotics navigation and path-planning. To tackle this problem, we resort to the motion flow between adjacent maps, as motion flow is a powerful tool to process and analyze the dynamic data, which is named optical flow in video processing. However, unlike video, which contains abundant visual features in each frame, a 2D LiDAR map lacks distinctive local features. To alleviate this challenge, we propose to estimate the motion flow based on deep neural networks inspired by its powerful representation learning ability in estimating the optical flow of the video. To this end, we design a recurrent neural network based on gated recurrent unit, which is named LiDAR-FlowNet. As a recurrent neural network can encode the temporal dynamic information, our LiDAR-FlowNet can estimate motion flow between the current map and the unknown next map only from the current frame and previous frames. A self-supervised strategy is further designed to train the LiDAR-FlowNet model effectively, while no training data need to be manually annotated. With the estimated motion flow, it is straightforward to predict the 2D LiDAR map at the next moment. Experimental results verify the effectiveness of our LiDAR-FlowNet as well as the proposed training strategy. The results of the predicted LiDAR map also show the advantages of our motion flow based method. 

Title: Inverse Reinforcement Learning with Multi-Relational Chains for Robot-Centered Smart Home
Abstract:  In a robot-centered smart home, the robot observes the home states with its own sensors, and then it can change certain object states according to an operator's commands for remote operations, or imitate the operator's behaviors in the house for autonomous operations. To model the robot's imitation of the operator's behaviors in a dynamic indoor environment, we use multi-relational chains to describe the changes of environment states, and apply inverse reinforcement learning to encoding the operator's behaviors with a learned reward function. We implement this approach with a mobile robot, and do five experiments to include increasing training days, object numbers, and action types. Besides, a baseline method by directly recording the operator's behaviors is also implemented, and comparison is made on the accuracy of home state evaluation and the accuracy of robot action selection. The results show that the proposed approach handles dynamic environment well, and guides the robot's actions in the house more accurately. 

Title: Towards continuous control of flippers for a multi-terrain robot using deep reinforcement learning
Abstract:  In this paper we focus on developing a control algorithm for multi-terrain tracked robots with flippers using a reinforcement learning (RL) approach. The work is based on the deep deterministic policy gradient (DDPG) algorithm, proven to be very successful in simple simulation environments. The algorithm works in an end-to-end fashion in order to control the continuous position of the flippers. This end-to-end approach makes it easy to apply the controller to a wide array of circumstances, but the huge flexibility comes to the cost of an increased difficulty of solution. The complexity of the task is enlarged even more by the fact that real multi-terrain robots move in partially observable environments. Notwithstanding these complications, being able to smoothly control a multi-terrain robot can produce huge benefits in impaired people daily lives or in search and rescue situations. 

Title: Efficient Exploration in Constrained Environments with Goal-Oriented Reference Path
Abstract:  In this paper, we consider the problem of building learning agents that can efficiently learn to navigate in constrained environments. The main goal is to design agents that can efficiently learn to understand and generalize to different environments using high-dimensional inputs (a 2D map), while following feasible paths that avoid obstacles in obstacle-cluttered environment. To achieve this, we make use of traditional path planning algorithms, supervised learning, and reinforcement learning algorithms in a synergistic way. The key idea is to decouple the navigation problem into planning and control, the former of which is achieved by supervised learning whereas the latter is done by reinforcement learning. Specifically, we train a deep convolutional network that can predict collision-free paths based on a map of the environment-- this is then used by a reinforcement learning algorithm to learn to closely follow the path. This allows the trained agent to achieve good generalization while learning faster. We test our proposed method in the recently proposed Safety Gym suite that allows testing of safety-constraints during training of learning agents. We compare our proposed method with existing work and show that our method consistently improves the sample efficiency and generalization capability to novel environments. 

Title: Reconfigurable Design for Omni-adaptive Grasp Learning
Abstract:  The engineering design of robotic grippers presents an ample design space for optimization towards robust grasping. In this paper, we adopt the reconfigurable design of the robotic gripper using a novel soft finger structure with omni-directional adaptation, which generates a large number of possible gripper configurations by rearranging these fingers. Such reconfigurable design with these omni-adaptive fingers enables us to systematically investigate the optimal arrangement of the fingers towards robust grasping. Furthermore, we adopt a learning-based method as the baseline to benchmark the effectiveness of each design configuration. As a result, we found that a 3-finger and 4-finger radial configuration is the most effective one achieving an average 96\% grasp success rate on seen and novel objects selected from the YCB dataset. We also discussed the influence of the frictional surface on the finger to improve the grasp robustness. 

Title: Reinforcement Learning of Musculoskeletal Control from Functional Simulations
Abstract:  To diagnose, plan, and treat musculoskeletal pathologies, understanding and reproducing muscle recruitment for complex movements is essential. With muscle activations for movements often being highly redundant, nonlinear, and time dependent, machine learning can provide a solution for their modeling and control for anatomy-specific musculoskeletal simulations. Sophisticated biomechanical simulations often require specialized computational environments, being numerically complex and slow, hindering their integration with typical deep learning frameworks. In this work, a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) based inverse dynamics controller is trained to control muscle activations of a biomechanical model of the human shoulder. In a generalizable end-to-end fashion, muscle activations are learned given current and desired position-velocity pairs. A customized reward functions for trajectory control is introduced, enabling straightforward extension to additional muscles and higher degrees of freedom. Using the biomechanical model, multiple episodes are simulated on a cluster simultaneously using the evolving neural models of the DRL being trained. Results are presented for a single-axis motion control of shoulder abduction for the task of following randomly generated angular trajectories. 

Title: HBST: A Hamming Distance embedding Binary Search Tree for Visual Place Recognition
Abstract:  Reliable and efficient Visual Place Recognition is a major building block of modern SLAM systems. Leveraging on our prior work, in this paper we present a Hamming Distance embedding Binary Search Tree (HBST) approach for binary Descriptor Matching and Image Retrieval. HBST allows for descriptor Search and Insertion in logarithmic time by exploiting particular properties of binary Feature descriptors. We support the idea behind our search structure with a thorough analysis on the exploited descriptor properties and their effects on completeness and complexity of search and insertion. To validate our claims we conducted comparative experiments for HBST and several state-of-the-art methods on a broad range of publicly available datasets. HBST is available as a compact open-source C++ header-only library. 

Title: Robustness to Adversarial Attacks in Learning-Enabled Controllers
Abstract:  Learning-enabled controllers used in cyber-physical systems (CPS) are known to be susceptible to adversarial attacks. Such attacks manifest as perturbations to the states generated by the controller's environment in response to its actions. We consider state perturbations that encompass a wide variety of adversarial attacks and describe an attack scheme for discovering adversarial states. To be useful, these attacks need to be natural, yielding states in which the controller can be reasonably expected to generate a meaningful response. We consider shield-based defenses as a means to improve controller robustness in the face of such perturbations. Our defense strategy allows us to treat the controller and environment as black-boxes with unknown dynamics. We provide a two-stage approach to construct this defense and show its effectiveness through a range of experiments on realistic continuous control domains such as the navigation control-loop of an F16 aircraft and the motion control system of humanoid robots. 

Title: Brain Inspired Cognitive Model with Attention for Self-Driving Cars
Abstract:  Perception-driven approach and end-to-end system are two major vision-based frameworks for self-driving cars. However, it is difficult to introduce attention and historical information of autonomous driving process, which are the essential factors for achieving human-like driving into these two methods. In this paper, we propose a novel model for self-driving cars named brain-inspired cognitive model with attention (CMA). This model consists of three parts: a convolutional neural network for simulating human visual cortex, a cognitive map built to describe relationships between objects in complex traffic scene and a recurrent neural network that combines with the real-time updated cognitive map to implement attention mechanism and long-short term memory. The benefit of our model is that can accurately solve three tasks simultaneously:1) detection of the free space and boundaries of the current and adjacent lanes. 2)estimation of obstacle distance and vehicle attitude, and 3) learning of driving behavior and decision making from human driver. More significantly, the proposed model could accept external navigating instructions during an end-to-end driving process. For evaluation, we build a large-scale road-vehicle dataset which contains more than forty thousand labeled road images captured by three cameras on our self-driving car. Moreover, human driving activities and vehicle states are recorded in the meanwhile. 

Title: Certified Adversarial Robustness for Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Deep Neural Network-based systems are now the state-of-the-art in many robotics tasks, but their application in safety-critical domains remains dangerous without formal guarantees on network robustness. Small perturbations to sensor inputs (from noise or adversarial examples) are often enough to change network-based decisions, which was already shown to cause an autonomous vehicle to swerve into oncoming traffic. In light of these dangers, numerous algorithms have been developed as defensive mechanisms from these adversarial inputs, some of which provide formal robustness guarantees or certificates. This work leverages research on certified adversarial robustness to develop an online certified defense for deep reinforcement learning algorithms. The proposed defense computes guaranteed lower bounds on state-action values during execution to identify and choose the optimal action under a worst-case deviation in input space due to possible adversaries or noise. The approach is demonstrated on a Deep Q-Network policy and is shown to increase robustness to noise and adversaries in pedestrian collision avoidance scenarios and a classic control task. 

Title: Learning to Move with Affordance Maps
Abstract:  The ability to autonomously explore and navigate a physical space is a fundamental requirement for virtually any mobile autonomous agent, from household robotic vacuums to autonomous vehicles. Traditional SLAM-based approaches for exploration and navigation largely focus on leveraging scene geometry, but fail to model dynamic objects (such as other agents) or semantic constraints (such as wet floors or doorways). Learning-based RL agents are an attractive alternative because they can incorporate both semantic and geometric information, but are notoriously sample inefficient, difficult to generalize to novel settings, and are difficult to interpret. In this paper, we combine the best of both worlds with a modular approach that learns a spatial representation of a scene that is trained to be effective when coupled with traditional geometric planners. Specifically, we design an agent that learns to predict a spatial affordance map that elucidates what parts of a scene are navigable through active self-supervised experience gathering. In contrast to most simulation environments that assume a static world, we evaluate our approach in the VizDoom simulator, using large-scale randomly-generated maps containing a variety of dynamic actors and hazards. We show that learned affordance maps can be used to augment traditional approaches for both exploration and navigation, providing significant improvements in performance. 

Title: Quantitative Depth Quality Assessment of RGBD Cameras At Close Range Using 3D Printed Fixtures
Abstract:  Mobile robots that manipulate their environments require high-accuracy scene understanding at close range. Typically this understanding is achieved with RGBD cameras, but the evaluation process for selecting an appropriate RGBD camera for the application is minimally quantitative. Limited manufacturer-published metrics do not translate to observed quality in real-world cluttered environments, since quality is application-specific. To bridge the gap, we present a method for quantitatively measuring depth quality using a set of extendable 3D printed fixtures that approximate real-world conditions. By framing depth quality as point cloud density and root mean square error (RMSE) from a known geometry, we present a method that is extendable by other system integrators for custom environments. We show a comparison of 3 cameras and present a case study for camera selection, provide reference meshes and analysis code, and discuss further extensions. 

Title: The Pedestrian Patterns Dataset
Abstract:  We present the pedestrian patterns dataset for autonomous driving. The dataset was collected by repeatedly traversing the same three routes for one week starting at different specific timeslots. The purpose of the dataset is to capture the patterns of social and pedestrian behavior along the traversed routes at different times and to eventually use this information to make predictions about the risk associated with autonomously traveling along different routes. This dataset contains the Full HD videos and GPS data for each traversal. Fast R-CNN pedestrian detection method is applied to the captured videos to count the number of pedestrians at each video frame in order to assess the density of pedestrians along a route. By providing this large-scale dataset to researchers, we hope to accelerate autonomous driving research not only to estimate the risk, both to the public and to the autonomous vehicle but also accelerate research on long-term vision-based localization of mobile robots and autonomous vehicles of the future. 

Title: Neural-Swarm: Decentralized Close-Proximity Multirotor Control Using Learned Interactions
Abstract:  In this paper, we present Neural-Swarm, a nonlinear decentralized stable controller for close-proximity flight of multirotor swarms. Close-proximity control is challenging due to the complex aerodynamic interaction effects between multirotors, such as downwash from higher vehicles to lower ones. Conventional methods often fail to properly capture these interaction effects, resulting in controllers that must maintain large safety distances between vehicles, and thus are not capable of close-proximity flight. Our approach combines a nominal dynamics model with a regularized permutation-invariant Deep Neural Network (DNN) that accurately learns the high-order multi-vehicle interactions. We design a stable nonlinear tracking controller using the learned model. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed controller significantly outperforms a baseline nonlinear tracking controller with up to four times smaller worst-case height tracking errors. We also empirically demonstrate the ability of our learned model to generalize to larger swarm sizes. 

Title: Image Segmentation for Fruit Detection and Yield Estimation in Apple Orchards
Abstract:  Ground vehicles equipped with monocular vision systems are a valuable source of high resolution image data for precision agriculture applications in orchards. This paper presents an image processing framework for fruit detection and counting using orchard image data. A general purpose image segmentation approach is used, including two feature learning algorithms; multi-scale Multi-Layered Perceptrons (MLP) and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN). These networks were extended by including contextual information about how the image data was captured (metadata), which correlates with some of the appearance variations and/or class distributions observed in the data. The pixel-wise fruit segmentation output is processed using the Watershed Segmentation (WS) and Circular Hough Transform (CHT) algorithms to detect and count individual fruits. Experiments were conducted in a commercial apple orchard near Melbourne, Australia. The results show an improvement in fruit segmentation performance with the inclusion of metadata on the previously benchmarked MLP network. We extend this work with CNNs, bringing agrovision closer to the state-of-the-art in computer vision, where although metadata had negligible influence, the best pixel-wise F1-score of $0.791$ was achieved. The WS algorithm produced the best apple detection and counting results, with a detection F1-score of $0.858$. As a final step, image fruit counts were accumulated over multiple rows at the orchard and compared against the post-harvest fruit counts that were obtained from a grading and counting machine. The count estimates using CNN and WS resulted in the best performance for this dataset, with a squared correlation coefficient of $r^2=0.826$. 

Title: Towards Holistic Scene Understanding: Feedback Enabled Cascaded Classification Models
Abstract:  Scene understanding includes many related sub-tasks, such as scene categorization, depth estimation, object detection, etc. Each of these sub-tasks is often notoriously hard, and state-of-the-art classifiers already exist for many of them. These classifiers operate on the same raw image and provide correlated outputs. It is desirable to have an algorithm that can capture such correlation without requiring any changes to the inner workings of any classifier. We propose Feedback Enabled Cascaded Classification Models (FE-CCM), that jointly optimizes all the sub-tasks, while requiring only a `black-box' interface to the original classifier for each sub-task. We use a two-layer cascade of classifiers, which are repeated instantiations of the original ones, with the output of the first layer fed into the second layer as input. Our training method involves a feedback step that allows later classifiers to provide earlier classifiers information about which error modes to focus on. We show that our method significantly improves performance in all the sub-tasks in the domain of scene understanding, where we consider depth estimation, scene categorization, event categorization, object detection, geometric labeling and saliency detection. Our method also improves performance in two robotic applications: an object-grasping robot and an object-finding robot. 

Title: Generic Primitive Detection in Point Clouds Using Novel Minimal Quadric Fits
Abstract:  We present a novel and effective method for detecting 3D primitives in cluttered, unorganized point clouds, without axillary segmentation or type specification. We consider the quadric surfaces for encapsulating the basic building blocks of our environments - planes, spheres, ellipsoids, cones or cylinders, in a unified fashion. Moreover, quadrics allow us to model higher degree of freedom shapes, such as hyperboloids or paraboloids that could be used in non-rigid settings. We begin by contributing two novel quadric fits targeting 3D point sets that are endowed with tangent space information. Based upon the idea of aligning the quadric gradients with the surface normals, our first formulation is exact and requires as low as four oriented points. The second fit approximates the first, and reduces the computational effort. We theoretically analyze these fits with rigor, and give algebraic and geometric arguments. Next, by re-parameterizing the solution, we devise a new local Hough voting scheme on the null-space coefficients that is combined with RANSAC, reducing the complexity from $O(N^4)$ to $O(N^3)$ (three points). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first method capable of performing a generic cross-type multi-object primitive detection in difficult scenes without segmentation. Our extensive qualitative and quantitative results show that our method is efficient and flexible, as well as being accurate. 

Title: MultiNet: Real-time Joint Semantic Reasoning for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  While most approaches to semantic reasoning have focused on improving performance, in this paper we argue that computational times are very important in order to enable real time applications such as autonomous driving. Towards this goal, we present an approach to joint classification, detection and semantic segmentation via a unified architecture where the encoder is shared amongst the three tasks. Our approach is very simple, can be trained end-to-end and performs extremely well in the challenging KITTI dataset, outperforming the state-of-the-art in the road segmentation task. Our approach is also very efficient, taking less than 100 ms to perform all tasks. 

Title: Real-Time Semantic Stereo Matching
Abstract:  Scene understanding is paramount in robotics, self-navigation, augmented reality, and many other fields. To fully accomplish this task, an autonomous agent has to infer the 3D structure of the sensed scene (to know where it looks at) and its content (to know what it sees). To tackle the two tasks, deep neural networks trained to infer semantic segmentation and depth from stereo images are often the preferred choices. Specifically, Semantic Stereo Matching can be tackled by either standalone models trained for the two tasks independently or joint end-to-end architectures. Nonetheless, as proposed so far, both solutions are inefficient because requiring two forward passes in the former case or due to the complexity of a single network in the latter, although jointly tackling both tasks is usually beneficial in terms of accuracy. In this paper, we propose a single compact and lightweight architecture for real-time semantic stereo matching. Our framework relies on coarse-to-fine estimations in a multi-stage fashion, allowing: i) very fast inference even on embedded devices, with marginal drops in accuracy, compared to state-of-the-art networks, ii) trade accuracy for speed, according to the specific application requirements. Experimental results on high-end GPUs as well as on an embedded Jetson TX2 confirm the superiority of semantic stereo matching compared to standalone tasks and highlight the versatility of our framework on any hardware and for any application. 

Title: Learning Visuomotor Policies for Aerial Navigation Using Cross-Modal Representations
Abstract:  Machines are a long way from robustly solving open-world perception-control tasks, such as first-person view (FPV) aerial navigation. While recent advances in end-to-end Machine Learning, especially Imitation and Reinforcement Learning appear promising, they are constrained by the need of large amounts of difficult-to-collect labeled real-world data. Simulated data, on the other hand, is easy to generate, but generally does not render safe behaviors in diverse real-life scenarios. In this work we propose a novel method for learning robust visuomotor policies for real-world deployment which can be trained purely with simulated data. We develop rich state representations that combine supervised and unsupervised environment data. Our approach takes a cross-modal perspective, where separate modalities correspond to the raw camera data and the system states relevant to the task, such as the relative pose of gates to the drone in the case of drone racing. We feed both data modalities into a novel factored architecture, which learns a joint low-dimensional embedding via Variational Auto Encoders. This compact representation is then fed into a control policy, which we trained using imitation learning with expert trajectories in a simulator. We analyze the rich latent spaces learned with our proposed representations, and show that the use of our cross-modal architecture significantly improves control policy performance as compared to end-to-end learning or purely unsupervised feature extractors. We also present real-world results for drone navigation through gates in different track configurations and environmental conditions. Our proposed method, which runs fully onboard, can successfully generalize the learned representations and policies across simulation and reality, significantly outperforming baseline approaches. Supplementary video: https://youtu.be/VKc3A5HlUU8 

Title: Classified Regression for Bayesian Optimization: Robot Learning with Unknown Penalties
Abstract:  Learning robot controllers by minimizing a black-box objective cost using Bayesian optimization (BO) can be time-consuming and challenging. It is very often the case that some roll-outs result in failure behaviors, causing premature experiment detention. In such cases, the designer is forced to decide on heuristic cost penalties because the acquired data is often scarce, or not comparable with that of the stable policies. To overcome this, we propose a Bayesian model that captures exactly what we know about the cost of unstable controllers prior to data collection: Nothing, except that it should be a somewhat large number. The resulting Bayesian model, approximated with a Gaussian process, predicts high cost values in regions where failures are likely to occur. In this way, the model guides the BO exploration toward regions of stability. We demonstrate the benefits of the proposed model in several illustrative and statistical synthetic benchmarks, and also in experiments on a real robotic platform. In addition, we propose and experimentally validate a new BO method to account for unknown constraints. Such method is an extension of Max-Value Entropy Search, a recent information-theoretic method, to solve unconstrained global optimization problems. 

Title: Who Make Drivers Stop? Towards Driver-centric Risk Assessment: Risk Object Identification via Causal Inference
Abstract:  A significant amount of people die in road accidents due to driver errors. To reduce fatalities, developing intelligent driving systems assisting drivers to identify potential risks is in an urgent need. Risky situations are generally defined based on collision prediction in the existing works. However, collision is only a source of potential risks, and a more generic definition is required. In this work, we propose a novel driver-centric definition of risk, i.e., objects influencing drivers' behavior are risky. A new task called risk object identification is introduced. We formulate the task as the cause-effect problem and present a novel two-stage risk object identification framework based on causal inference with the proposed object-level manipulable driving model. We demonstrate favorable performance on risk object identification compared with strong baselines on the Honda Research Institute Driving Dataset (HDD). Our framework achieves a substantial average performance boost over a strong baseline by 7.5%. 

Title: Robust Data Association for Object-level Semantic SLAM
Abstract:  Simultaneous mapping and localization (SLAM) in an real indoor environment is still a challenging task. Traditional SLAM approaches rely heavily on low-level geometric constraints like corners or lines, which may lead to tracking failure in textureless surroundings or cluttered world with dynamic objects. In this paper, a compact semantic SLAM framework is proposed, with utilization of both geometric and object-level semantic constraints jointly, a more consistent mapping result, and more accurate pose estimation can be obtained. Two main contributions are presented int the paper, a) a robust and efficient SLAM data association and optimization framework is proposed, it models both discrete semantic labeling and continuous pose. b) a compact map representation, combining 2D Lidar map with object detection is presented. Experiments on public indoor datasets, TUM-RGBD, ICL-NUIM, and our own collected datasets prove the improving of SLAM robustness and accuracy compared to other popular SLAM systems, meanwhile a map maintenance efficiency can be achieved. 

Title: Inverse Reinforcement Learning in Large State Spaces via Function Approximation
Abstract:  This paper introduces a new method for inverse reinforcement learning in large-scale and high-dimensional state spaces. To avoid solving the computationally expensive reinforcement learning problems in reward learning, we propose a function approximation method to ensure that the Bellman Optimality Equation always holds, and then estimate a function to maximize the likelihood of the observed motion. The time complexity of the proposed method is linearly proportional to the cardinality of the action set, thus it can handle large state spaces efficiently. We test the proposed method in a simulated environment, and show that it is more accurate than existing methods and significantly better in scalability. We also show that the proposed method can extend many existing methods to high-dimensional state spaces. We then apply the method to evaluating the effect of rehabilitative stimulations on patients with spinal cord injuries based on the observed patient motions. 

Title: Crowdsourced 3D Mapping: A Combined Multi-View Geometry and Self-Supervised Learning Approach
Abstract:  The ability to efficiently utilize crowdsourced visual data carries immense potential for the domains of large scale dynamic mapping and autonomous driving. However, state-of-the-art methods for crowdsourced 3D mapping assume prior knowledge of camera intrinsics. In this work, we propose a framework that estimates the 3D positions of semantically meaningful landmarks such as traffic signs without assuming known camera intrinsics, using only monocular color camera and GPS. We utilize multi-view geometry as well as deep learning based self-calibration, depth, and ego-motion estimation for traffic sign positioning, and show that combining their strengths is important for increasing the map coverage. To facilitate research on this task, we construct and make available a KITTI based 3D traffic sign ground truth positioning dataset. Using our proposed framework, we achieve an average single-journey relative and absolute positioning accuracy of 39cm and 1.26m respectively, on this dataset. 

Title: Characterization of Multiple 3D LiDARs for Localization and Mapping using Normal Distributions Transform
Abstract:  In this work, we present a detailed comparison of ten different 3D LiDAR sensors, covering a range of manufacturers, models, and laser configurations, for the tasks of mapping and vehicle localization, using as common reference the Normal Distributions Transform (NDT) algorithm implemented in the self-driving open source platform Autoware. LiDAR data used in this study is a subset of our LiDAR Benchmarking and Reference (LIBRE) dataset, captured independently from each sensor, from a vehicle driven on public urban roads multiple times, at different times of the day. In this study, we analyze the performance and characteristics of each LiDAR for the tasks of (1) 3D mapping including an assessment map quality based on mean map entropy, and (2) 6-DOF localization using a ground truth reference map. 

Title: Learning to Actively Reduce Memory Requirements for Robot Control Tasks
Abstract:  Robots equipped with rich sensing modalities (e.g., RGB-D cameras) performing long-horizon tasks motivate the need for policies that are highly memory-efficient. State-of-the-art approaches for controlling robots often use memory representations that are excessively rich for the task or rely on hand-crafted tricks for memory efficiency. Instead, this work provides a general approach for jointly synthesizing memory representations and policies; the resulting policies actively seek to reduce memory requirements (i.e., take actions that reduce memory usage). Specifically, we present a reinforcement learning framework that leverages an implementation of the group LASSO regularization to synthesize policies that employ low-dimensional and task-centric memory representations. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach with simulated examples including navigation in discrete and continuous spaces as well as vision-based indoor navigation set in a photo-realistic simulator. The results on these examples indicate that our method is capable of finding policies that rely only on low-dimensional memory representations and actively reduce memory requirements. 

Title: Results from the Robocademy ITN: Autonomy, Disturbance Rejection and Perception for Advanced Marine Robotics
Abstract:  Marine and Underwater resources are important part of the economy of many countries. This requires significant financial resources into their construction and maintentance. Robotics is expected to fill this void, by automating and/or removing humans from hostile environments in order to easily perform maintenance tasks. The Robocademy Marie Sklodowska-Curie Initial Training Network was funded by the European Union's FP7 research program in order to train 13 Fellows into world-leading researchers in Marine and Underwater Robotics. The fellows developed guided research into three areas of key importance: Autonomy, Disturbance Rejection, and Perception. This paper presents a summary of the fellows' research in the three action lines. 71 scientific publications were the primary result of this project, with many other publications currently in the pipeline. Most of the fellows have found employment in Europe, which shows the high demand for this kind of experts. We believe the results from this project are already having an impact in the marine robotics industry, as key technologies are being adopted already. 

Title: Adaptive Path-Integral Autoencoder: Representation Learning and Planning for Dynamical Systems
Abstract:  We present a representation learning algorithm that learns a low-dimensional latent dynamical system from high-dimensional \textit{sequential} raw data, e.g., video. The framework builds upon recent advances in amortized inference methods that use both an inference network and a refinement procedure to output samples from a variational distribution given an observation sequence, and takes advantage of the duality between control and inference to approximately solve the intractable inference problem using the path integral control approach. The learned dynamical model can be used to predict and plan the future states; we also present the efficient planning method that exploits the learned low-dimensional latent dynamics. Numerical experiments show that the proposed path-integral control based variational inference method leads to tighter lower bounds in statistical model learning of sequential data. The supplementary video: https://youtu.be/xCp35crUoLQ 

Title: Ellipse R-CNN: Learning to Infer Elliptical Object from Clustering and Occlusion
Abstract:  Images of heavily occluded objects in cluttered scenes, such as fruit clusters in trees, are hard to segment. To further retrieve the 3D size and 6D pose of each individual object in such cases, bounding boxes are not reliable from multiple views since only a little portion of the object's geometry is captured. We introduce the first CNN-based ellipse detector, called Ellipse R-CNN, to represent and infer occluded objects as ellipses. We first propose a robust and compact ellipse regression based on the Mask R-CNN architecture for elliptical object detection. Our method can infer the parameters of multiple elliptical objects even they are occluded by other neighboring objects. For better occlusion handling, we exploit refined feature regions for the regression stage, and integrate the U-Net structure for learning different occlusion patterns to compute the final detection score. The correctness of ellipse regression is validated through experiments performed on synthetic data of clustered ellipses. We further quantitatively and qualitatively demonstrate that our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art model (i.e., Mask R-CNN followed by ellipse fitting) and its three variants on both synthetic and real datasets of occluded and clustered elliptical objects. 

Title: Sensorimotor learning for artificial body perception
Abstract:  Artificial self-perception is the machine ability to perceive its own body, i.e., the mastery of modal and intermodal contingencies of performing an action with a specific sensors/actuators body configuration. In other words, the spatio-temporal patterns that relate its sensors (e.g. visual, proprioceptive, tactile, etc.), its actions and its body latent variables are responsible of the distinction between its own body and the rest of the world. This paper describes some of the latest approaches for modelling artificial body self-perception: from Bayesian estimation to deep learning. Results show the potential of these free-model unsupervised or semi-supervised crossmodal/intermodal learning approaches. However, there are still challenges that should be overcome before we achieve artificial multisensory body perception. 

Title: Off-Policy Evaluation via Off-Policy Classification
Abstract:  In this work, we consider the problem of model selection for deep reinforcement learning (RL) in real-world environments. Typically, the performance of deep RL algorithms is evaluated via on-policy interactions with the target environment. However, comparing models in a real-world environment for the purposes of early stopping or hyperparameter tuning is costly and often practically infeasible. This leads us to examine off-policy policy evaluation (OPE) in such settings. We focus on OPE for value-based methods, which are of particular interest in deep RL, with applications like robotics, where off-policy algorithms based on Q-function estimation can often attain better sample complexity than direct policy optimization. Existing OPE metrics either rely on a model of the environment, or the use of importance sampling (IS) to correct for the data being off-policy. However, for high-dimensional observations, such as images, models of the environment can be difficult to fit and value-based methods can make IS hard to use or even ill-conditioned, especially when dealing with continuous action spaces. In this paper, we focus on the specific case of MDPs with continuous action spaces and sparse binary rewards, which is representative of many important real-world applications. We propose an alternative metric that relies on neither models nor IS, by framing OPE as a positive-unlabeled (PU) classification problem with the Q-function as the decision function. We experimentally show that this metric outperforms baselines on a number of tasks. Most importantly, it can reliably predict the relative performance of different policies in a number of generalization scenarios, including the transfer to the real-world of policies trained in simulation for an image-based robotic manipulation task. 

Title: Making Robots Draw A Vivid Portrait In Two Minutes
Abstract:  Significant progress has been made with artistic robots. However, existing robots fail to produce high-quality portraits in a short time. In this work, we present a drawing robot, which can automatically transfer a facial picture to a vivid portrait, and then draw it on paper within two minutes averagely. At the heart of our system is a novel portrait synthesis algorithm based on deep learning. Innovatively, we employ a self-consistency loss, which makes the algorithm capable of generating continuous and smooth brush-strokes. Besides, we propose a componential sparsity constraint to reduce the number of brush-strokes over insignificant areas. We also implement a local sketch synthesis algorithm, and several pre- and post-processing techniques to deal with the background and details. The portrait produced by our algorithm successfully captures individual characteristics by using a sparse set of continuous brush-strokes. Finally, the portrait is converted to a sequence of trajectories and reproduced by a 3-degree-of-freedom robotic arm. The whole portrait drawing robotic system is named AiSketcher. Extensive experiments show that AiSketcher can produce considerably high-quality sketches for a wide range of pictures, including faces in-the-wild and universal images of arbitrary content. To our best knowledge, AiSketcher is the first portrait drawing robot that uses neural style transfer techniques. AiSketcher has attended a quite number of exhibitions and shown remarkable performance under diverse circumstances. 

Title: Rearrangement with Nonprehensile Manipulation Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Rearranging objects on a tabletop surface by means of nonprehensile manipulation is a task which requires skillful interaction with the physical world. Usually, this is achieved by precisely modeling physical properties of the objects, robot, and the environment for explicit planning. In contrast, as explicitly modeling the physical environment is not always feasible and involves various uncertainties, we learn a nonprehensile rearrangement strategy with deep reinforcement learning based on only visual feedback. For this, we model the task with rewards and train a deep Q-network. Our potential field-based heuristic exploration strategy reduces the amount of collisions which lead to suboptimal outcomes and we actively balance the training set to avoid bias towards poor examples. Our training process leads to quicker learning and better performance on the task as compared to uniform exploration and standard experience replay. We demonstrate empirical evidence from simulation that our method leads to a success rate of 85%, show that our system can cope with sudden changes of the environment, and compare our performance with human level performance. 

Title: Improved Exploration through Latent Trajectory Optimization in Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient
Abstract:  Model-free reinforcement learning algorithms such as Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG) often require additional exploration strategies, especially if the actor is of deterministic nature. This work evaluates the use of model-based trajectory optimization methods used for exploration in Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient when trained on a latent image embedding. In addition, an extension of DDPG is derived using a value function as critic, making use of a learned deep dynamics model to compute the policy gradient. This approach leads to a symbiotic relationship between the deep reinforcement learning algorithm and the latent trajectory optimizer. The trajectory optimizer benefits from the critic learned by the RL algorithm and the latter from the enhanced exploration generated by the planner. The developed methods are evaluated on two continuous control tasks, one in simulation and one in the real world. In particular, a Baxter robot is trained to perform an insertion task, while only receiving sparse rewards and images as observations from the environment. 

Title: Modular Transfer Learning with Transition Mismatch Compensation for Excessive Disturbance Rejection
Abstract:  Underwater robots in shallow waters usually suffer from strong wave forces, which may frequently exceed robot's control constraints. Learning-based controllers are suitable for disturbance rejection control, but the excessive disturbances heavily affect the state transition in Markov Decision Process (MDP) or Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP). Also, pure learning procedures on targeted system may encounter damaging exploratory actions or unpredictable system variations, and training exclusively on a prior model usually cannot address model mismatch from the targeted system. In this paper, we propose a transfer learning framework that adapts a control policy for excessive disturbance rejection of an underwater robot under dynamics model mismatch. A modular network of learning policies is applied, composed of a Generalized Control Policy (GCP) and an Online Disturbance Identification Model (ODI). GCP is first trained over a wide array of disturbance waveforms. ODI then learns to use past states and actions of the system to predict the disturbance waveforms which are provided as input to GCP (along with the system state). A transfer reinforcement learning algorithm using Transition Mismatch Compensation (TMC) is developed based on the modular architecture, that learns an additional compensatory policy through minimizing mismatch of transitions predicted by the two dynamics models of the source and target tasks. We demonstrated on a pose regulation task in simulation that TMC is able to successfully reject the disturbances and stabilize the robot under an empirical model of the robot system, meanwhile improve sample efficiency. 

Title: Toward Synergic Learning for Autonomous Manipulation of Deformable Tissues via Surgical Robots: An Approximate Q-Learning Approach
Abstract:  In this paper, we present a synergic learning algorithm to address the task of indirect manipulation of an unknown deformable tissue. Tissue manipulation is a common yet challenging task in various surgical interventions, which makes it a good candidate for robotic automation. We propose using a linear approximate Q-learning method in which human knowledge contributes to selecting useful yet simple features of tissue manipulation while the algorithm learns to take optimal actions and accomplish the task. The algorithm is implemented and evaluated on a simulation using the OpenCV and CHAI3D libraries. Successful simulation results for four different configurations which are based on realistic tissue manipulation scenarios are presented. Results indicate that with a careful selection of relatively simple and intuitive features, the developed Q-learning algorithm can successfully learn an optimal policy without any prior knowledge of tissue dynamics or camera intrinsic/extrinsic calibration parameters. 

Title: Learning sparse relational transition models
Abstract:  We present a representation for describing transition models in complex uncertain domains using relational rules. For any action, a rule selects a set of relevant objects and computes a distribution over properties of just those objects in the resulting state given their properties in the previous state. An iterative greedy algorithm is used to construct a set of deictic references that determine which objects are relevant in any given state. Feed-forward neural networks are used to learn the transition distribution on the relevant objects' properties. This strategy is demonstrated to be both more versatile and more sample efficient than learning a monolithic transition model in a simulated domain in which a robot pushes stacks of objects on a cluttered table. 

Title: Analogical Reasoning for Visually Grounded Language Acquisition
Abstract:  Children acquire language subconsciously by observing the surrounding world and listening to descriptions. They can discover the meaning of words even without explicit language knowledge, and generalize to novel compositions effortlessly. In this paper, we bring this ability to AI, by studying the task of Visually grounded Language Acquisition (VLA). We propose a multimodal transformer model augmented with a novel mechanism for analogical reasoning, which approximates novel compositions by learning semantic mapping and reasoning operations from previously seen compositions. Our proposed method, Analogical Reasoning Transformer Networks (ARTNet), is trained on raw multimedia data (video frames and transcripts), and after observing a set of compositions such as "washing apple" or "cutting carrot", it can generalize and recognize new compositions in new video frames, such as "washing carrot" or "cutting apple". To this end, ARTNet refers to relevant instances in the training data and uses their visual features and captions to establish analogies with the query image. Then it chooses the suitable verb and noun to create a new composition that describes the new image best. Extensive experiments on an instructional video dataset demonstrate that the proposed method achieves significantly better generalization capability and recognition accuracy compared to state-of-the-art transformer models. 

Title: Vote3Deep: Fast Object Detection in 3D Point Clouds Using Efficient Convolutional Neural Networks
Abstract:  This paper proposes a computationally efficient approach to detecting objects natively in 3D point clouds using convolutional neural networks (CNNs). In particular, this is achieved by leveraging a feature-centric voting scheme to implement novel convolutional layers which explicitly exploit the sparsity encountered in the input. To this end, we examine the trade-off between accuracy and speed for different architectures and additionally propose to use an L1 penalty on the filter activations to further encourage sparsity in the intermediate representations. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to propose sparse convolutional layers and L1 regularisation for efficient large-scale processing of 3D data. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on the KITTI object detection benchmark and show that Vote3Deep models with as few as three layers outperform the previous state of the art in both laser and laser-vision based approaches by margins of up to 40% while remaining highly competitive in terms of processing time. 

Title: Robot Vision: Calibration of Wide-Angle Lens Cameras Using Collinearity Condition and K-Nearest Neighbour Regression
Abstract:  Visual perception is regularly used by humans and robots for navigation. By either implicitly or explicitly mapping the environment, ego-motion can be determined and a path of actions can be planned. The process of mapping and navigation are delicately intertwined; therefore, improving one can often lead to an improvement of the other. Both processes are sensitive to the interior orientation parameters of the camera system and mathematically modelling these systematic errors can often improve the precision and accuracy of the overall solution. This paper presents an automatic camera calibration method suitable for any lens, without having prior knowledge about the sensor. Statistical inference is performed to map the environment and localize the camera simultaneously. K-nearest neighbour regression is used to model the geometric distortions of the images. A normal-angle lens Nikon camera and wide-angle lens GoPro camera were calibrated using the proposed method, as well as the conventional bundle adjustment with self-calibration method (for comparison). Results showed that the mapping error was reduced from an average of 14.9 mm to 1.2 mm (i.e. a 92% improvement) and 66.6 mm to 1.5 mm (i.e. a 98% improvement) using the proposed method for the Nikon and GoPro cameras, respectively. In contrast, the conventional approach achieved an average 3D error of 0.9 mm (i.e. 94% improvement) and 3.3 mm (i.e. 95% improvement) for the Nikon and GoPro cameras, respectively. Thus, the proposed method performs well irrespective of the lens/sensor used: it yields results that are comparable to the conventional approach for normal-angle lens cameras, and it has the additional benefit of improving calibration results for wide-angle lens cameras. 

Title: Introspective Perception: Learning to Predict Failures in Vision Systems
Abstract:  As robots aspire for long-term autonomous operations in complex dynamic environments, the ability to reliably take mission-critical decisions in ambiguous situations becomes critical. This motivates the need to build systems that have situational awareness to assess how qualified they are at that moment to make a decision. We call this self-evaluating capability as introspection. In this paper, we take a small step in this direction and propose a generic framework for introspective behavior in perception systems. Our goal is to learn a model to reliably predict failures in a given system, with respect to a task, directly from input sensor data. We present this in the context of vision-based autonomous MAV flight in outdoor natural environments, and show that it effectively handles uncertain situations. 

Title: The Feeling of Success: Does Touch Sensing Help Predict Grasp Outcomes?
Abstract:  A successful grasp requires careful balancing of the contact forces. Deducing whether a particular grasp will be successful from indirect measurements, such as vision, is therefore quite challenging, and direct sensing of contacts through touch sensing provides an appealing avenue toward more successful and consistent robotic grasping. However, in order to fully evaluate the value of touch sensing for grasp outcome prediction, we must understand how touch sensing can influence outcome prediction accuracy when combined with other modalities. Doing so using conventional model-based techniques is exceptionally difficult. In this work, we investigate the question of whether touch sensing aids in predicting grasp outcomes within a multimodal sensing framework that combines vision and touch. To that end, we collected more than 9,000 grasping trials using a two-finger gripper equipped with GelSight high-resolution tactile sensors on each finger, and evaluated visuo-tactile deep neural network models to directly predict grasp outcomes from either modality individually, and from both modalities together. Our experimental results indicate that incorporating tactile readings substantially improve grasping performance. 

Title: LocNet: Global localization in 3D point clouds for mobile vehicles
Abstract:  Global localization in 3D point clouds is a challenging problem of estimating the pose of vehicles without any prior knowledge. In this paper, a solution to this problem is presented by achieving place recognition and metric pose estimation in the global prior map. Specifically, we present a semi-handcrafted representation learning method for LiDAR point clouds using siamese LocNets, which states the place recognition problem to a similarity modeling problem. With the final learned representations by LocNet, a global localization framework with range-only observations is proposed. To demonstrate the performance and effectiveness of our global localization system, KITTI dataset is employed for comparison with other algorithms, and also on our long-time multi-session datasets for evaluation. The result shows that our system can achieve high accuracy. 

Title: Planning under non-rational perception of uncertain spatial costs
Abstract:  This work investigates the design of risk-perception-aware motion-planning strategies that can incorporate non-rational perception of risks associated with uncertain spatial costs. Our proposed method employs the Cumulative Prospect Theory (CPT) model to generate a perceived risk function across a given environment. Using this, CPT-like perceived risks and path-length metrics are combined to define a cost function that is compliant with the requirements of asymptotic optimality of sampling-based motion planners (RRT*). The modeling capabilities of CPT are illustrated in theory and simulation, along with a comparison to other risk perception models like Conditional Value at Risk (CVaR). Theoretically, we define the notion of expressiveness for a risk perception model and show that CPT's is higher than that of CVaR and expected risk. We then show that the expressiveness hierarchy translates to our path planning setting, where we observe that a planner equipped with CPT together with a a simultaneous perturbation stochastic approximation (SPSA) method can better approximate arbitrary paths in an environment. Additionally, through simulations, we show that our planner captures a rich set of meaningful paths, representative of different risk perceptions in a custom environment. We then compare the performance of our planner with T-RRT* (a planner for continuous cost spaces) and Risk-RRT* (a risk-aware planner for dynamic human obstacles) through simulations in cluttered and dynamic environments respectively. We show that our proposed planner can generate better paths in comparison. 

Title: Bayesian optimisation under uncertain inputs
Abstract:  Bayesian optimisation (BO) has been a successful approach to optimise functions which are expensive to evaluate and whose observations are noisy. Classical BO algorithms, however, do not account for errors about the location where observations are taken, which is a common issue in problems with physical components. In these cases, the estimation of the actual query location is also subject to uncertainty. In this context, we propose an upper confidence bound (UCB) algorithm for BO problems where both the outcome of a query and the true query location are uncertain. The algorithm employs a Gaussian process model that takes probability distributions as inputs. Theoretical results are provided for both the proposed algorithm and a conventional UCB approach within the uncertain-inputs setting. Finally, we evaluate each method's performance experimentally, comparing them to other input noise aware BO approaches on simulated scenarios involving synthetic and real data. 

Title: A New Multi-vehicle Trajectory Generator to Simulate Vehicle-to-Vehicle Encounters
Abstract:  Generating multi-vehicle trajectories from existing limited data can provide rich resources for autonomous vehicle development and testing. This paper introduces a multi-vehicle trajectory generator (MTG) that can encode multi-vehicle interaction scenarios (called driving encounters) into an interpretable representation from which new driving encounter scenarios are generated by sampling. The MTG consists of a bi-directional encoder and a multi-branch decoder. A new disentanglement metric is then developed for model analyses and comparisons in terms of model robustness and the independence of the latent codes. Comparison of our proposed MTG with $\beta$-VAE and InfoGAN demonstrates that the MTG has stronger capability to purposely generate rational vehicle-to-vehicle encounters through operating the disentangled latent codes. Thus the MTG could provide more data for engineers and researchers to develop testing and evaluation scenarios for autonomous vehicles. 

Title: On the Limitations of Representing Functions on Sets
Abstract:  Recent work on the representation of functions on sets has considered the use of summation in a latent space to enforce permutation invariance. In particular, it has been conjectured that the dimension of this latent space may remain fixed as the cardinality of the sets under consideration increases. However, we demonstrate that the analysis leading to this conjecture requires mappings which are highly discontinuous and argue that this is only of limited practical use. Motivated by this observation, we prove that an implementation of this model via continuous mappings (as provided by e.g. neural networks or Gaussian processes) actually imposes a constraint on the dimensionality of the latent space. Practical universal function representation for set inputs can only be achieved with a latent dimension at least the size of the maximum number of input elements. 

Title: Learning About Objects by Learning to Interact with Them
Abstract:  Much of the remarkable progress in computer vision has been focused around fully supervised learning mechanisms relying on highly curated datasets for a variety of tasks. In contrast, humans often learn about their world with little to no external supervision. Taking inspiration from infants learning from their environment through play and interaction, we present a computational framework to discover objects and learn their physical properties along this paradigm of Learning from Interaction. Our agent, when placed within the near photo-realistic and physics-enabled AI2-THOR environment, interacts with its world and learns about objects, their geometric extents and relative masses, without any external guidance. Our experiments reveal that this agent learns efficiently and effectively; not just for objects it has interacted with before, but also for novel instances from seen categories as well as novel object categories. 

Title: DSVO: Direct Stereo Visual Odometry
Abstract:  This paper proposes a novel approach to stereo visual odometry without stereo matching. It is particularly robust in scenes of repetitive high-frequency textures. Referred to as DSVO (Direct Stereo Visual Odometry), it operates directly on pixel intensities, without any explicit feature matching, and is thus efficient and more accurate than the state-of-the-art stereo-matching-based methods. It applies a semi-direct monocular visual odometry running on one camera of the stereo pair, tracking the camera pose and mapping the environment simultaneously; the other camera is used to optimize the scale of monocular visual odometry. We evaluate DSVO in a number of challenging scenes to evaluate its performance and present comparisons with the state-of-the-art stereo visual odometry algorithms. 

Title: Multi-Task Policy Search
Abstract:  Learning policies that generalize across multiple tasks is an important and challenging research topic in reinforcement learning and robotics. Training individual policies for every single potential task is often impractical, especially for continuous task variations, requiring more principled approaches to share and transfer knowledge among similar tasks. We present a novel approach for learning a nonlinear feedback policy that generalizes across multiple tasks. The key idea is to define a parametrized policy as a function of both the state and the task, which allows learning a single policy that generalizes across multiple known and unknown tasks. Applications of our novel approach to reinforcement and imitation learning in real-robot experiments are shown. 

Title: GarmNet: Improving Global with Local Perception for Robotic Laundry Folding
Abstract:  Developing autonomous assistants to help with domestic tasks is a vital topic in robotics research. Among these tasks, garment folding is one of them that is still far from being achieved mainly due to the large number of possible configurations that a crumpled piece of clothing may exhibit. Research has been done on either estimating the pose of the garment as a whole or detecting the landmarks for grasping separately. However, such works constrain the capability of the robots to perceive the states of the garment by limiting the representations for one single task. In this paper, we propose a novel end-to-end deep learning model named GarmNet that is able to simultaneously localize the garment and detect landmarks for grasping. The localization of the garment represents the global information for recognising the category of the garment, whereas the detection of landmarks can facilitate subsequent grasping actions. We train and evaluate our proposed GarmNet model using the CloPeMa Garment dataset that contains 3,330 images of different garment types in different poses. The experiments show that the inclusion of landmark detection (GarmNet-B) can largely improve the garment localization, with an error rate of 24.7% lower. Solutions as ours are important for robotics applications, as these offer scalable to many classes, memory and processing efficient solutions. 

Title: Using Counterfactual Reasoning and Reinforcement Learning for Decision-Making in Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  In decision-making for autonomous vehicles, we need to predict other vehicle's behaviors or learn their behavior implicitly using machine learning. However, often the predictions and learned models have errors or might be wrong altogether which can lead to dangerous situations. Therefore, decision-making algorithms should consider counterfactual reasoning such as: what would happen if the other agents will behave in a certain way? The approach we present in this paper is two-fold: First, during training, we randomly select behavior models from a behavior model pool and assign them to the other vehicles in the scenario, such as more passive or aggressive behavior models. Second, during the application, we derive several virtual worlds from the actual world that have the same initial state. In each of these worlds, we also assign behavior models from the behavior model pool to others. We then evolve these virtual worlds for a defined time-horizon. This enables us to apply counterfactual reasoning by asking what would happen if the actual world evolves as in the virtual world. In uncertain environments, this makes it possible to generate more probable risk estimates and, thus, to enable safer decision-making. We conduct studies using a lane-change scenario that shows the advantages of counterfactual reasoning using learned policies and virtual worlds to estimate their risk and performance. 

Title: Benchmarking Classic and Learned Navigation in Complex 3D Environments
Abstract:  Navigation research is attracting renewed interest with the advent of learning-based methods. However, this new line of work is largely disconnected from well-established classic navigation approaches. In this paper, we take a step towards coordinating these two directions of research. We set up classic and learning-based navigation systems in common simulated environments and thoroughly evaluate them in indoor spaces of varying complexity, with access to different sensory modalities. Additionally, we measure human performance in the same environments. We find that a classic pipeline, when properly tuned, can perform very well in complex cluttered environments. On the other hand, learned systems can operate more robustly with a limited sensor suite. Overall, both approaches are still far from human-level performance. 

Title: Weakly Supervised Recognition of Surgical Gestures
Abstract:  Kinematic trajectories recorded from surgical robots contain information about surgical gestures and potentially encode cues about surgeon's skill levels. Automatic segmentation of these trajectories into meaningful action units could help to develop new metrics for surgical skill assessment as well as to simplify surgical automation. State-of-the-art methods for action recognition relied on manual labelling of large datasets, which is time consuming and error prone. Unsupervised methods have been developed to overcome these limitations. However, they often rely on tedious parameter tuning and perform less well than supervised approaches, especially on data with high variability such as surgical trajectories. Hence, the potential of weak supervision could be to improve unsupervised learning while avoiding manual annotation of large datasets. In this paper, we used at a minimum one expert demonstration and its ground truth annotations to generate an appropriate initialization for a GMM-based algorithm for gesture recognition. We showed on real surgical demonstrations that the latter significantly outperforms standard task-agnostic initialization methods. We also demonstrated how to improve the recognition accuracy further by redefining the actions and optimising the inputs. 

Title: FA-Harris: A Fast and Asynchronous Corner Detector for Event Cameras
Abstract:  Recently, the emerging bio-inspired event cameras have demonstrated potentials for a wide range of robotic applications in dynamic environments. In this paper, we propose a novel fast and asynchronous event-based corner detection method which is called FA-Harris. FA-Harris consists of several components, including an event filter, a Global Surface of Active Events (G-SAE) maintaining unit, a corner candidate selecting unit, and a corner candidate refining unit. The proposed G-SAE maintenance algorithm and corner candidate selection algorithm greatly enhance the real-time performance for corner detection, while the corner candidate refinement algorithm maintains the accuracy of performance by using an improved event-based Harris detector. Additionally, FA-Harris does not require artificially synthesized event-frames and can operate on asynchronous events directly. We implement the proposed method in C++ and evaluate it on public Event Camera Datasets. The results show that our method achieves approximately 8x speed-up when compared with previously reported event-based Harris detector, and with no compromise on the accuracy of performance. 

Title: SQUIRL: Robust and Efficient Learning from Video Demonstration of Long-Horizon Robotic Manipulation Tasks
Abstract:  Recent advances in deep reinforcement learning (RL) have demonstrated its potential to learn complex robotic manipulation tasks. However, RL still requires the robot to collect a large amount of real-world experience. To address this problem, recent works have proposed learning from expert demonstrations (LfD), particularly via inverse reinforcement learning (IRL), given its ability to achieve robust performance with only a small number of expert demonstrations. Nevertheless, deploying IRL on real robots is still challenging due to the large number of robot experiences it requires. This paper aims to address this scalability challenge with a robust, sample-efficient, and general meta-IRL algorithm, SQUIRL, that performs a new but related long-horizon task robustly given only a single video demonstration. First, this algorithm bootstraps the learning of a task encoder and a task-conditioned policy using behavioral cloning (BC). It then collects real-robot experiences and bypasses reward learning by directly recovering a Q-function from the combined robot and expert trajectories. Next, this algorithm uses the Q-function to re-evaluate all cumulative experiences collected by the robot to improve the policy quickly. In the end, the policy performs more robustly (90%+ success) than BC on new tasks while requiring no trial-and-errors at test time. Finally, our real-robot and simulated experiments demonstrate our algorithm's generality across different state spaces, action spaces, and vision-based manipulation tasks, e.g., pick-pour-place and pick-carry-drop. 

Title: TrafficPredict: Trajectory Prediction for Heterogeneous Traffic-Agents
Abstract:  To safely and efficiently navigate in complex urban traffic, autonomous vehicles must make responsible predictions in relation to surrounding traffic-agents (vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians, etc.). A challenging and critical task is to explore the movement patterns of different traffic-agents and predict their future trajectories accurately to help the autonomous vehicle make reasonable navigation decision. To solve this problem, we propose a long short-term memory-based (LSTM-based) realtime traffic prediction algorithm, TrafficPredict. Our approach uses an instance layer to learn instances' movements and interactions and has a category layer to learn the similarities of instances belonging to the same type to refine the prediction. In order to evaluate its performance, we collected trajectory datasets in a large city consisting of varying conditions and traffic densities. The dataset includes many challenging scenarios where vehicles, bicycles, and pedestrians move among one another. We evaluate the performance of TrafficPredict on our new dataset and highlight its higher accuracy for trajectory prediction by comparing with prior prediction methods. 

Title: Learning Stable Manoeuvres in Quadruped Robots from Expert Demonstrations
Abstract:  With the research into development of quadruped robots picking up pace, learning based techniques are being explored for developing locomotion controllers for such robots. A key problem is to generate leg trajectories for continuously varying target linear and angular velocities, in a stable manner. In this paper, we propose a two pronged approach to address this problem. First, multiple simpler policies are trained to generate trajectories for a discrete set of target velocities and turning radius. These policies are then augmented using a higher level neural network for handling the transition between the learned trajectories. Specifically, we develop a neural network-based filter that takes in target velocity, radius and transforms them into new commands that enable smooth transitions to the new trajectory. This transformation is achieved by learning from expert demonstrations. An application of this is the transformation of a novice user's input into an expert user's input, thereby ensuring stable manoeuvres regardless of the user's experience. Training our proposed architecture requires much less expert demonstrations compared to standard neural network architectures. Finally, we demonstrate experimentally these results in the in-house quadruped Stoch 2. 

Title: LIBRE: The Multiple 3D LiDAR Dataset
Abstract:  In this work, we present LIBRE: LiDAR Benchmarking and Reference, a first-of-its-kind dataset featuring 10 different LiDAR sensors, covering a range of manufacturers, models, and laser configurations. Data captured independently from each sensor includes three different environments and configurations: static targets, where objects were placed at known distances and measured from a fixed position within a controlled environment; adverse weather, where static obstacles were measured from a moving vehicle, captured in a weather chamber where LiDARs were exposed to different conditions (fog, rain, strong light); and finally, dynamic traffic, where dynamic objects were captured from a vehicle driven on public urban roads, multiple times at different times of the day, and including supporting sensors such as cameras, infrared imaging, and odometry devices. LIBRE will contribute to the research community to (1) provide a means for a fair comparison of currently available LiDARs, and (2) facilitate the improvement of existing self-driving vehicles and robotics-related software, in terms of development and tuning of LiDAR-based perception algorithms. 

Title: Non-myopic Planetary Exploration Combining In Situ and Remote Measurements
Abstract:  Remote sensing can provide crucial information for planetary rovers. However, they must validate these orbital observations with in situ measurements. Typically, this involves validating hyperspectral data using a spectrometer on-board the field robot. In order to achieve this, the robot must visit sampling locations that jointly improve a model of the environment while satisfying sampling constraints. However, current planners follow sub-optimal greedy strategies that are not scalable to larger regions. We demonstrate how the problem can be effectively defined in an MDP framework and propose a planning algorithm based on Monte Carlo Tree Search, which is devoid of the common drawbacks of existing planners and also provides superior performance. We evaluate our approach using hyperspectral imagery of a well-studied geologic site in Cuprite, Nevada. 

Title: Automatic Curriculum Learning through Value Disagreement
Abstract:  Continually solving new, unsolved tasks is the key to learning diverse behaviors. Through reinforcement learning (RL), we have made massive strides towards solving tasks that have a single goal. However, in the multi-task domain, where an agent needs to reach multiple goals, the choice of training goals can largely affect sample efficiency. When biological agents learn, there is often an organized and meaningful order to which learning happens. Inspired by this, we propose setting up an automatic curriculum for goals that the agent needs to solve. Our key insight is that if we can sample goals at the frontier of the set of goals that an agent is able to reach, it will provide a significantly stronger learning signal compared to randomly sampled goals. To operationalize this idea, we introduce a goal proposal module that prioritizes goals that maximize the epistemic uncertainty of the Q-function of the policy. This simple technique samples goals that are neither too hard nor too easy for the agent to solve, hence enabling continual improvement. We evaluate our method across 13 multi-goal robotic tasks and 5 navigation tasks, and demonstrate performance gains over current state-of-the-art methods. 

Title: Generalization through Simulation: Integrating Simulated and Real Data into Deep Reinforcement Learning for Vision-Based Autonomous Flight
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning provides a promising approach for vision-based control of real-world robots. However, the generalization of such models depends critically on the quantity and variety of data available for training. This data can be difficult to obtain for some types of robotic systems, such as fragile, small-scale quadrotors. Simulated rendering and physics can provide for much larger datasets, but such data is inherently of lower quality: many of the phenomena that make the real-world autonomous flight problem challenging, such as complex physics and air currents, are modeled poorly or not at all, and the systematic differences between simulation and the real world are typically impossible to eliminate. In this work, we investigate how data from both simulation and the real world can be combined in a hybrid deep reinforcement learning algorithm. Our method uses real-world data to learn about the dynamics of the system, and simulated data to learn a generalizable perception system that can enable the robot to avoid collisions using only a monocular camera. We demonstrate our approach on a real-world nano aerial vehicle collision avoidance task, showing that with only an hour of real-world data, the quadrotor can avoid collisions in new environments with various lighting conditions and geometry. Code, instructions for building the aerial vehicles, and videos of the experiments can be found at github.com/gkahn13/GtS 

Title: Robotic Cane as a Soft SuperLimb for Elderly Sit-to-Stand Assistance
Abstract:  Many researchers have identified robotics as a potential solution to the aging population faced by many developed and developing countries. If so, how should we address the cognitive acceptance and ambient control of elderly assistive robots through design? In this paper, we proposed an explorative design of an ambient SuperLimb (Supernumerary Robotic Limb) system that involves a pneumatically-driven robotic cane for at-home motion assistance, an inflatable vest for compliant human-robot interaction, and a depth sensor for ambient intention detection. The proposed system aims at providing active assistance during the sit-to-stand transition for at-home usage by the elderly at the bedside, in the chair, and on the toilet. We proposed a modified biomechanical model with a linear cane robot for closed-loop control implementation. We validated the design feasibility of the proposed ambient SuperLimb system including the biomechanical model, our result showed the advantages in reducing lower limb efforts and elderly fall risks, yet the detection accuracy using depth sensing and adjustments on the model still require further research in the future. Nevertheless, we summarized empirical guidelines to support the ambient design of elderly-assistive SuperLimb systems for lower limb functional augmentation. 

Title: HCNAF: Hyper-Conditioned Neural Autoregressive Flow and its Application for Probabilistic Occupancy Map Forecasting
Abstract:  We introduce Hyper-Conditioned Neural Autoregressive Flow (HCNAF); a powerful universal distribution approximator designed to model arbitrarily complex conditional probability density functions. HCNAF consists of a neural-net based conditional autoregressive flow (AF) and a hyper-network that can take large conditions in non-autoregressive fashion and outputs the network parameters of the AF. Like other flow models, HCNAF performs exact likelihood inference. We conduct a number of density estimation tasks on toy experiments and MNIST to demonstrate the effectiveness and attributes of HCNAF, including its generalization capability over unseen conditions and expressivity. Finally, we show that HCNAF scales up to complex high-dimensional prediction problems of the magnitude of self-driving and that HCNAF yields a state-of-the-art performance in a public self-driving dataset. 

Title: DCT Maps: Compact Differentiable Lidar Maps Based on the Cosine Transform
Abstract:  Most robot mapping techniques for lidar sensors tessellate the environment into pixels or voxels and assume uniformity of the environment within them. Although intuitive, this representation entails disadvantages: The resulting grid maps exhibit aliasing effects and are not differentiable. In the present paper, we address these drawbacks by introducing a novel mapping technique that does neither rely on tessellation nor on the assumption of piecewise uniformity of the space, without increasing memory requirements. Instead of representing the map in the position domain, we store the map parameters in the discrete frequency domain and leverage the continuous extension of the inverse discrete cosine transform to convert them to a continuously differentiable scalar field in the position domain, which we call DCT map. A DCT map assigns to each point in space a lidar decay rate, which models the local permeability of the space for laser rays. In this way, the map can describe objects of different laser permeabilities, from completely opaque to completely transparent. DCT maps represent lidar measurements significantly more accurate than grid maps, Gaussian process occupancy maps, and Hilbert maps, all with the same memory requirements, as demonstrated in our real-world experiments. 

Title: Socially Guided Intrinsic Motivation for Robot Learning of Motor Skills
Abstract:  This paper presents a technical approach to robot learning of motor skills which combines active intrinsically motivated learning with imitation learning. Our architecture, called SGIM-D, allows efficient learning of high-dimensional continuous sensorimotor inverse models in robots, and in particular learns distributions of parameterised motor policies that solve a corresponding distribution of parameterised goals/tasks. This is made possible by the technical integration of imitation learning techniques within an algorithm for learning inverse models that relies on active goal babbling. After reviewing social learning and intrinsic motivation approaches to action learning, we describe the general framework of our algorithm, before detailing its architecture. In an experiment where a robot arm has to learn to use a flexible fishing line , we illustrate that SGIM-D efficiently combines the advantages of social learning and intrinsic motivation and benefits from human demonstration properties to learn how to produce varied outcomes in the environment, while developing more precise control policies in large spaces. 

Title: Learning to Plan Hierarchically from Curriculum
Abstract:  We present a framework for learning to plan hierarchically in domains with unknown dynamics. We enhance planning performance by exploiting problem structure in several ways: (i) We simplify the search over plans by leveraging knowledge of skill objectives, (ii) Shorter plans are generated by enforcing aggressively hierarchical planning, (iii) We learn transition dynamics with sparse local models for better generalisation. Our framework decomposes transition dynamics into skill effects and success conditions, which allows fast planning by reasoning on effects, while learning conditions from interactions with the world. We propose a simple method for learning new abstract skills, using successful trajectories stemming from completing the goals of a curriculum. Learned skills are then refined to leverage other abstract skills and enhance subsequent planning. We show that both conditions and abstract skills can be learned simultaneously while planning, even in stochastic domains. Our method is validated in experiments of increasing complexity, with up to 2^100 states, showing superior planning to classic non-hierarchical planners or reinforcement learning methods. Applicability to real-world problems is demonstrated in a simulation-to-real transfer experiment on a robotic manipulator. 

Title: What You See is What You Get: Exploiting Visibility for 3D Object Detection
Abstract:  Recent advances in 3D sensing have created unique challenges for computer vision. One fundamental challenge is finding a good representation for 3D sensor data. Most popular representations (such as PointNet) are proposed in the context of processing truly 3D data (e.g. points sampled from mesh models), ignoring the fact that 3D sensored data such as a LiDAR sweep is in fact 2.5D. We argue that representing 2.5D data as collections of (x, y, z) points fundamentally destroys hidden information about freespace. In this paper, we demonstrate such knowledge can be efficiently recovered through 3D raycasting and readily incorporated into batch-based gradient learning. We describe a simple approach to augmenting voxel-based networks with visibility: we add a voxelized visibility map as an additional input stream. In addition, we show that visibility can be combined with two crucial modifications common to state-of-the-art 3D detectors: synthetic data augmentation of virtual objects and temporal aggregation of LiDAR sweeps over multiple time frames. On the NuScenes 3D detection benchmark, we show that, by adding an additional stream for visibility input, we can significantly improve the overall detection accuracy of a state-of-the-art 3D detector. 

Title: An Iterative LQR Controller for Off-Road and On-Road Vehicles using a Neural Network Dynamics Model
Abstract:  In this work we evaluate Iterative Linear Quadratic Regulator(ILQR) for trajectory tracking of two different kinds of wheeled mobile robots namely Warthog (Fig. 1), an off-road holonomic robot with skid-steering and Polaris GEM e6 [1], a non-holonomic six seater vehicle (Fig. 2). We use multilayer neural network to learn the discrete dynamic model of these robots which is used in ILQR controller to compute the control law. We use model predictive control (MPC) to deal with model imperfections and perform extensive experiments to evaluate the performance of the controller on human driven reference trajectories with vehicle speeds of 3m/s- 4m/s for warthog and 7m/s-10m/s for the Polaris GEM 

Title: CMRNet: Camera to LiDAR-Map Registration
Abstract:  In this paper we present CMRNet, a realtime approach based on a Convolutional Neural Network to localize an RGB image of a scene in a map built from LiDAR data. Our network is not trained in the working area, i.e. CMRNet does not learn the map. Instead it learns to match an image to the map. We validate our approach on the KITTI dataset, processing each frame independently without any tracking procedure. CMRNet achieves 0.27m and 1.07deg median localization accuracy on the sequence 00 of the odometry dataset, starting from a rough pose estimate displaced up to 3.5m and 17deg. To the best of our knowledge this is the first CNN-based approach that learns to match images from a monocular camera to a given, preexisting 3D LiDAR-map. 

Title: REPLAB: A Reproducible Low-Cost Arm Benchmark Platform for Robotic Learning
Abstract:  Standardized evaluation measures have aided in the progress of machine learning approaches in disciplines such as computer vision and machine translation. In this paper, we make the case that robotic learning would also benefit from benchmarking, and present the "REPLAB" platform for benchmarking vision-based manipulation tasks. REPLAB is a reproducible and self-contained hardware stack (robot arm, camera, and workspace) that costs about 2000 USD, occupies a cuboid of size 70x40x60 cm, and permits full assembly within a few hours. Through this low-cost, compact design, REPLAB aims to drive wide participation by lowering the barrier to entry into robotics and to enable easy scaling to many robots. We envision REPLAB as a framework for reproducible research across manipulation tasks, and as a step in this direction, we define a template for a grasping benchmark consisting of a task definition, evaluation protocol, performance measures, and a dataset of 92k grasp attempts. We implement, evaluate, and analyze several previously proposed grasping approaches to establish baselines for this benchmark. Finally, we also implement and evaluate a deep reinforcement learning approach for 3D reaching tasks on our REPLAB platform. Project page with assembly instructions, code, and videos: https://goo.gl/5F9dP4. 

Title: Sensor Fusion for Robot Control through Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning is becoming increasingly popular for robot control algorithms, with the aim for a robot to self-learn useful feature representations from unstructured sensory input leading to the optimal actuation policy. In addition to sensors mounted on the robot, sensors might also be deployed in the environment, although these might need to be accessed via an unreliable wireless connection. In this paper, we demonstrate deep neural network architectures that are able to fuse information coming from multiple sensors and are robust to sensor failures at runtime. We evaluate our method on a search and pick task for a robot both in simulation and the real world. 

Title: Coarse-To-Fine Visual Localization Using Semantic Compact Map
Abstract:  Robust visual localization for urban vehicles remains challenging and unsolved. The limitation of computation efficiency and memory size has made it harder for large-scale applications. Since semantic information serves as a stable and compact representation of the environment, we propose a coarse-to-fine localization system based on a semantic compact map. Pole-like objects are stored in the compact map, then are extracted from semantically segmented images as observations. Localization is performed by a particle filter, followed by a pose alignment module decoupling translation and rotation to achieve better accuracy. We evaluate our system both on synthetic and realistic datasets and compare it with two baselines, a state-of-art semantic feature-based system and a traditional SIFT feature-based system. Experiments demonstrate that even with a significantly small map, such as a 10 KB map for a 3.7 km long trajectory, our system provides a comparable accuracy with the baselines. 

Title: TiledSoilingNet: Tile-level Soiling Detection on Automotive Surround-view Cameras Using Coverage Metric
Abstract:  Automotive cameras, particularly surround-view cameras, tend to get soiled by mud, water, snow, etc. For higher levels of autonomous driving, it is necessary to have a soiling detection algorithm which will trigger an automatic cleaning system. Localized detection of soiling in an image is necessary to control the cleaning system. It is also necessary to enable partial functionality in unsoiled areas while reducing confidence in soiled areas. Although this can be solved using a semantic segmentation task, we explore a more efficient solution targeting deployment in low power embedded system. We propose a novel method to regress the area of each soiling type within a tile directly. We refer to this as coverage. The proposed approach is better than learning the dominant class in a tile as multiple soiling types occur within a tile commonly. It also has the advantage of dealing with coarse polygon annotation, which will cause the segmentation task. The proposed soiling coverage decoder is an order of magnitude faster than an equivalent segmentation decoder. We also integrated it into an object detection and semantic segmentation multi-task model using an asynchronous back-propagation algorithm. A portion of the dataset used will be released publicly as part of our WoodScape dataset to encourage further research. 

Title: Bags of Affine Subspaces for Robust Object Tracking
Abstract:  We propose an adaptive tracking algorithm where the object is modelled as a continuously updated bag of affine subspaces, with each subspace constructed from the object's appearance over several consecutive frames. In contrast to linear subspaces, affine subspaces explicitly model the origin of subspaces. Furthermore, instead of using a brittle point-to-subspace distance during the search for the object in a new frame, we propose to use a subspace-to-subspace distance by representing candidate image areas also as affine subspaces. Distances between subspaces are then obtained by exploiting the non-Euclidean geometry of Grassmann manifolds. Experiments on challenging videos (containing object occlusions, deformations, as well as variations in pose and illumination) indicate that the proposed method achieves higher tracking accuracy than several recent discriminative trackers. 

Title: Planning with Abstract Learned Models While Learning Transferable Subtasks
Abstract:  We introduce an algorithm for model-based hierarchical reinforcement learning to acquire self-contained transition and reward models suitable for probabilistic planning at multiple levels of abstraction. We call this framework Planning with Abstract Learned Models (PALM). By representing subtasks symbolically using a new formal structure, the lifted abstract Markov decision process (L-AMDP), PALM learns models that are independent and modular. Through our experiments, we show how PALM integrates planning and execution, facilitating a rapid and efficient learning of abstract, hierarchical models. We also demonstrate the increased potential for learned models to be transferred to new and related tasks. 

Title: Learning Deep NBNN Representations for Robust Place Categorization
Abstract:  This paper presents an approach for semantic place categorization using data obtained from RGB cameras. Previous studies on visual place recognition and classification have shown that, by considering features derived from pre-trained Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) in combination with part-based classification models, high recognition accuracy can be achieved, even in presence of occlusions and severe viewpoint changes. Inspired by these works, we propose to exploit local deep representations, representing images as set of regions applying a Na\"{i}ve Bayes Nearest Neighbor (NBNN) model for image classification. As opposed to previous methods where CNNs are merely used as feature extractors, our approach seamlessly integrates the NBNN model into a fully-convolutional neural network. Experimental results show that the proposed algorithm outperforms previous methods based on pre-trained CNN models and that, when employed in challenging robot place recognition tasks, it is robust to occlusions, environmental and sensor changes. 

Title: Exploiting Event Cameras for Spatio-Temporal Prediction of Fast-Changing Trajectories
Abstract:  This paper investigates trajectory prediction for robotics, to improve the interaction of robots with moving targets, such as catching a bouncing ball. Unexpected, highly-non-linear trajectories cannot easily be predicted with regression-based fitting procedures, therefore we apply state of the art machine learning, specifically based on Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM) architectures. In addition, fast moving targets are better sensed using event cameras, which produce an asynchronous output triggered by spatial change, rather than at fixed temporal intervals as with traditional cameras. We investigate how LSTM models can be adapted for event camera data, and in particular look at the benefit of using asynchronously sampled data. 

Title: Action sequencing using visual permutations
Abstract:  Humans can easily reason about the sequence of high level actions needed to complete tasks, but it is particularly difficult to instil this ability in robots trained from relatively few examples. This work considers the task of neural action sequencing conditioned on a single reference visual state. This task is extremely challenging as it is not only subject to the significant combinatorial complexity that arises from large action sets, but also requires a model that can perform some form of symbol grounding, mapping high dimensional input data to actions, while reasoning about action relationships. Drawing on human cognitive abilities to rearrange objects in scenes to create new configurations, we take a permutation perspective and argue that action sequencing benefits from the ability to reason about both permutations and ordering concepts. Empirical analysis shows that neural models trained with latent permutations outperform standard neural architectures in constrained action sequencing tasks. Results also show that action sequencing using visual permutations is an effective mechanism to initialise and speed up traditional planning techniques and successfully scales to far greater action set sizes than models considered previously. 

Title: Egocentric affordance detection with the one-shot geometry-driven Interaction Tensor
Abstract:  In this abstract we describe recent [4,7] and latest work on the determination of affordances in visually perceived 3D scenes. Our method builds on the hypothesis that geometry on its own provides enough information to enable the detection of significant interaction possibilities in the environment. The motivation behind this is that geometric information is intimately related to the physical interactions afforded by objects in the world. The approach uses a generic representation for the interaction between everyday objects such as a mug or an umbrella with the environment, and also for more complex affordances such as humans Sitting or Riding a motorcycle. Experiments with synthetic and real RGB-D scenes show that the representation enables the prediction of affordance candidate locations in novel environments at fast rates and from a single (one-shot) training example. The determination of affordances is a crucial step towards systems that need to perceive and interact with their surroundings. We here illustrate output on two cases for a simulated robot and for an Augmented Reality setting, both perceiving in an egocentric manner. 

Title: DISCO: Double Likelihood-free Inference Stochastic Control
Abstract:  Accurate simulation of complex physical systems enables the development, testing, and certification of control strategies before they are deployed into the real systems. As simulators become more advanced, the analytical tractability of the differential equations and associated numerical solvers incorporated in the simulations diminishes, making them difficult to analyse. A potential solution is the use of probabilistic inference to assess the uncertainty of the simulation parameters given real observations of the system. Unfortunately the likelihood function required for inference is generally expensive to compute or totally intractable. In this paper we propose to leverage the power of modern simulators and recent techniques in Bayesian statistics for likelihood-free inference to design a control framework that is efficient and robust with respect to the uncertainty over simulation parameters. The posterior distribution over simulation parameters is propagated through a potentially non-analytical model of the system with the unscented transform, and a variant of the information theoretical model predictive control. This approach provides a more efficient way to evaluate trajectory roll outs than Monte Carlo sampling, reducing the online computation burden. Experiments show that the controller proposed attained superior performance and robustness on classical control and robotics tasks when compared to models not accounting for the uncertainty over model parameters. 

Title: A Hamilton-Jacobi Reachability-Based Framework for Predicting and Analyzing Human Motion for Safe Planning
Abstract:  Real-world autonomous systems often employ probabilistic predictive models of human behavior during planning to reason about their future motion. Since accurately modeling human behavior a priori is challenging, such models are often parameterized, enabling the robot to adapt predictions based on observations by maintaining a distribution over the model parameters. Although this enables data and priors to improve the human model, observation models are difficult to specify and priors may be incorrect, leading to erroneous state predictions that can degrade the safety of the robot motion plan. In this work, we seek to design a predictor which is more robust to misspecified models and priors, but can still leverage human behavioral data online to reduce conservatism in a safe way. To do this, we cast human motion prediction as a Hamilton-Jacobi reachability problem in the joint state space of the human and the belief over the model parameters. We construct a new continuous-time dynamical system, where the inputs are the observations of human behavior, and the dynamics include how the belief over the model parameters change. The results of this reachability computation enable us to both analyze the effect of incorrect priors on future predictions in continuous state and time, as well as to make predictions of the human state in the future. We compare our approach to the worst-case forward reachable set and a stochastic predictor which uses Bayesian inference and produces full future state distributions. Our comparisons in simulation and in hardware demonstrate how our framework can enable robust planning while not being overly conservative, even when the human model is inaccurate. 

Title: 3D Sensing of a Moving Object with a Nodding 2D LIDAR and Reconfigurable Mirrors
Abstract:  Perception in 3D has become standard practice for a large part of robotics applications. High quality 3D perception is costly. Our previous work on a nodding 2D Lidar provides high quality 3D depth information with low cost, but the sparse data generated by this sensor poses challenges in understanding the characteristics of moving objects within an uncertain environment. This paper proposes a novel design of the nodding Lidar but provides dynamic reconfigurability in terms of limiting the field of view of the sensor using a set of optical mirrors. It not only provides denser scans, but it also achieves a three times higher scan update rate. Additionally, we propose a novel calibration mechanism for this sensor and prove its effectiveness for dynamic object detection and tracking. 

Title: Robust Ego and Object 6-DoF Motion Estimation and Tracking
Abstract:  The problem of tracking self-motion as well as motion of objects in the scene using information from a camera is known as multi-body visual odometry and is a challenging task. This paper proposes a robust solution to achieve accurate estimation and consistent track-ability for dynamic multi-body visual odometry. A compact and effective framework is proposed leveraging recent advances in semantic instance-level segmentation and accurate optical flow estimation. A novel formulation, jointly optimizing SE(3) motion and optical flow is introduced that improves the quality of the tracked points and the motion estimation accuracy. The proposed approach is evaluated on the virtual KITTI Dataset and tested on the real KITTI Dataset, demonstrating its applicability to autonomous driving applications. For the benefit of the community, we make the source code public. 

Title: Survey on Vision-based Path Prediction
Abstract:  Path prediction is a fundamental task for estimating how pedestrians or vehicles are going to move in a scene. Because path prediction as a task of computer vision uses video as input, various information used for prediction, such as the environment surrounding the target and the internal state of the target, need to be estimated from the video in addition to predicting paths. Many prediction approaches that include understanding the environment and the internal state have been proposed. In this survey, we systematically summarize methods of path prediction that take video as input and and extract features from the video. Moreover, we introduce datasets used to evaluate path prediction methods quantitatively. 

Title: xYOLO: A Model For Real-Time Object Detection In Humanoid Soccer On Low-End Hardware
Abstract:  With the emergence of onboard vision processing for areas such as the internet of things (IoT), edge computing and autonomous robots, there is increasing demand for computationally efficient convolutional neural network (CNN) models to perform real-time object detection on resource constraints hardware devices. Tiny-YOLO is generally considered as one of the faster object detectors for low-end devices and is the basis for our work. Our experiments on this network have shown that Tiny-YOLO can achieve 0.14 frames per second(FPS) on the Raspberry Pi 3 B, which is too slow for soccer playing autonomous humanoid robots detecting goal and ball objects. In this paper we propose an adaptation to the YOLO CNN model named xYOLO, that can achieve object detection at a speed of 9.66 FPS on the Raspberry Pi 3 B. This is achieved by trading an acceptable amount of accuracy, making the network approximately 70 times faster than Tiny-YOLO. Greater inference speed-ups were also achieved on a desktop CPU and GPU. Additionally we contribute an annotated Darknet dataset for goal and ball detection. 

Title: Unsupervised preprocessing for Tactile Data
Abstract:  Tactile information is important for gripping, stable grasp, and in-hand manipulation, yet the complexity of tactile data prevents widespread use of such sensors. We make use of an unsupervised learning algorithm that transforms the complex tactile data into a compact, latent representation without the need to record ground truth reference data. These compact representations can either be used directly in a reinforcement learning based controller or can be used to calibrate the tactile sensor to physical quantities with only a few datapoints. We show the quality of our latent representation by predicting important features and with a simple control task. 

Title: The StreetLearn Environment and Dataset
Abstract:  Navigation is a rich and well-grounded problem domain that drives progress in many different areas of research: perception, planning, memory, exploration, and optimisation in particular. Historically these challenges have been separately considered and solutions built that rely on stationary datasets - for example, recorded trajectories through an environment. These datasets cannot be used for decision-making and reinforcement learning, however, and in general the perspective of navigation as an interactive learning task, where the actions and behaviours of a learning agent are learned simultaneously with the perception and planning, is relatively unsupported. Thus, existing navigation benchmarks generally rely on static datasets (Geiger et al., 2013; Kendall et al., 2015) or simulators (Beattie et al., 2016; Shah et al., 2018). To support and validate research in end-to-end navigation, we present StreetLearn: an interactive, first-person, partially-observed visual environment that uses Google Street View for its photographic content and broad coverage, and give performance baselines for a challenging goal-driven navigation task. The environment code, baseline agent code, and the dataset are available at http://streetlearn.cc 

Title: End-to-End Training of Deep Visuomotor Policies
Abstract:  Policy search methods can allow robots to learn control policies for a wide range of tasks, but practical applications of policy search often require hand-engineered components for perception, state estimation, and low-level control. In this paper, we aim to answer the following question: does training the perception and control systems jointly end-to-end provide better performance than training each component separately? To this end, we develop a method that can be used to learn policies that map raw image observations directly to torques at the robot's motors. The policies are represented by deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) with 92,000 parameters, and are trained using a partially observed guided policy search method, which transforms policy search into supervised learning, with supervision provided by a simple trajectory-centric reinforcement learning method. We evaluate our method on a range of real-world manipulation tasks that require close coordination between vision and control, such as screwing a cap onto a bottle, and present simulated comparisons to a range of prior policy search methods. 

Title: Improving Visual Feature Extraction in Glacial Environments
Abstract:  Glacial science could benefit tremendously from autonomous robots, but previous glacial robots have had perception issues in these colorless and featureless environments, specifically with visual feature extraction. This translates to failures in visual odometry and visual navigation. Glaciologists use near-infrared imagery to reveal the underlying heterogeneous spatial structure of snow and ice, and we theorize that this hidden near-infrared structure could produce more and higher quality features than available in visible light. We took a custom camera rig to Igloo Cave at Mt. St. Helens to test our theory. The camera rig contains two identical machine vision cameras, one which was outfitted with multiple filters to see only near-infrared light. We extracted features from short video clips taken inside Igloo Cave at Mt. St. Helens, using three popular feature extractors (FAST, SIFT, and SURF). We quantified the number of features and their quality for visual navigation by comparing the resulting orientation estimates to ground truth. Our main contribution is the use of NIR longpass filters to improve the quantity and quality of visual features in icy terrain, irrespective of the feature extractor used. 

Title: Invisible Marker: Automatic Annotation of Segmentation Masks for Object Manipulation
Abstract:  We propose a method to annotate segmentation masks accurately and automatically using invisible marker for object manipulation. Invisible marker is invisible under visible (regular) light conditions, but becomes visible under invisible light, such as ultraviolet (UV) light. By painting objects with the invisible marker, and by capturing images while alternately switching between regular and UV light at high speed, massive annotated datasets are created quickly and inexpensively. We show a comparison between our proposed method and manual annotations. We demonstrate semantic segmentation for deformable objects including clothes, liquids, and powders under controlled environmental light conditions. In addition, we show demonstrations of liquid pouring tasks under uncontrolled environmental light conditions in complex environments such as inside the office, house, and outdoors. Furthermore, it is possible to capture data while the camera is in motion so it becomes easier to capture large datasets, as shown in our demonstration. 

Title: A Robot Localization Framework Using CNNs for Object Detection and Pose Estimation
Abstract:  External localization is an essential part for the indoor operation of small or cost-efficient robots, as they are used, for example, in swarm robotics. We introduce a two-stage localization and instance identification framework for arbitrary robots based on convolutional neural networks. Object detection is performed on an external camera image of the operation zone providing robot bounding boxes for an identification and orientation estimation convolutional neural network. Additionally, we propose a process to generate the necessary training data. The framework was evaluated with 3 different robot types and various identification patterns. We have analyzed the main framework hyperparameters providing recommendations for the framework operation settings. We achieved up to 98% mAP@IOU0.5 and only 1.6{\deg} orientation error, running with a frame rate of 50 Hz on a GPU. 

Title: Semantic Label Reduction Techniques for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Semantic segmentation maps can be used as input to models for maneuvering the controls of a car. However, not all labels may be necessary for making the control decision. One would expect that certain labels such as road lanes or sidewalks would be more critical in comparison with labels for vegetation or buildings which may not have a direct influence on the car's driving decision. In this appendix, we evaluate and quantify how sensitive and important the different semantic labels are for controlling the car. Labels that do not influence the driving decision are remapped to other classes, thereby simplifying the task by reducing to only labels critical for driving of the vehicle. 

Title: Safe Multi-Agent Interaction through Robust Control Barrier Functions with Learned Uncertainties
Abstract:  Robots operating in real world settings must navigate and maintain safety while interacting with many heterogeneous agents and obstacles. Multi-Agent Control Barrier Functions (CBF) have emerged as a computationally efficient tool to guarantee safety in multi-agent environments, but they assume perfect knowledge of both the robot dynamics and other agents' dynamics. While knowledge of the robot's dynamics might be reasonably well known, the heterogeneity of agents in real-world environments means there will always be considerable uncertainty in our prediction of other agents' dynamics. This work aims to learn high-confidence bounds for these dynamic uncertainties using Matrix-Variate Gaussian Process models, and incorporates them into a robust multi-agent CBF framework. We transform the resulting min-max robust CBF into a quadratic program, which can be efficiently solved in real time. We verify via simulation results that the nominal multi-agent CBF is often violated during agent interactions, whereas our robust formulation maintains safety with a much higher probability and adapts to learned uncertainties 

Title: Bottom-Up Meta-Policy Search
Abstract:  Despite of the recent progress in agents that learn through interaction, there are several challenges in terms of sample efficiency and generalization across unseen behaviors during training. To mitigate these problems, we propose and apply a first-order Meta-Learning algorithm called Bottom-Up Meta-Policy Search (BUMPS), which works with two-phase optimization procedure: firstly, in a meta-training phase, it distills few expert policies to create a meta-policy capable of generalizing knowledge to unseen tasks during training; secondly, it applies a fast adaptation strategy named Policy Filtering, which evaluates few policies sampled from the meta-policy distribution and selects which best solves the task. We conducted all experiments in the RoboCup 3D Soccer Simulation domain, in the context of kick motion learning. We show that, given our experimental setup, BUMPS works in scenarios where simple multi-task Reinforcement Learning does not. Finally, we performed experiments in a way to evaluate each component of the algorithm. 

Title: Algae Detection Using Computer Vision and Deep Learning
Abstract:  A disconcerting ramification of water pollution caused by burgeoning populations, rapid industrialization and modernization of agriculture, has been the exponential increase in the incidence of algal growth across the globe. Harmful algal blooms (HABs) have devastated fisheries, contaminated drinking water and killed livestock, resulting in economic losses to the tune of millions of dollars. Therefore, it is important to constantly monitor water bodies and identify any algae build-up so that prompt action against its accumulation can be taken and the harmful consequences can be avoided. In this paper, we propose a computer vision system based on deep learning for algae monitoring. The proposed system is fast, accurate and cheap, and it can be installed on any robotic platforms such as USVs and UAVs for autonomous algae monitoring. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed system can detect algae in distinct environments regardless of the underlying hardware with high accuracy and in real time. 

Title: CMRNet++: Map and Camera Agnostic Monocular Visual Localization in LiDAR Maps
Abstract:  Localization is a critically essential and crucial enabler of autonomous robots. While deep learning has made significant strides in many computer vision tasks, it is still yet to make a sizeable impact on improving capabilities of metric visual localization. One of the major hindrances has been the inability of existing Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)-based pose regression methods to generalize to previously unseen places. Our recently introduced CMRNet effectively addresses this limitation by enabling map independent monocular localization in LiDAR-maps. In this paper, we now take it a step further by introducing CMRNet++, which is a significantly more robust model that not only generalizes to new places effectively, but is also independent of the camera parameters. We enable this capability by combining deep learning with geometric techniques, and by moving the metric reasoning outside the learning process. In this way, the weights of the network are not tied to a specific camera. Extensive evaluations of CMRNet++ on three challenging autonomous driving datasets, i.e., KITTI, Argoverse, and Lyft5, show that CMRNet++ outperforms CMRNet as well as other baselines by a large margin. More importantly, for the first-time, we demonstrate the ability of a deep learning approach to accurately localize without any retraining or fine-tuning in a completely new environment and independent of the camera parameters. 

Title: LaserNet: An Efficient Probabilistic 3D Object Detector for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  In this paper, we present LaserNet, a computationally efficient method for 3D object detection from LiDAR data for autonomous driving. The efficiency results from processing LiDAR data in the native range view of the sensor, where the input data is naturally compact. Operating in the range view involves well known challenges for learning, including occlusion and scale variation, but it also provides contextual information based on how the sensor data was captured. Our approach uses a fully convolutional network to predict a multimodal distribution over 3D boxes for each point and then it efficiently fuses these distributions to generate a prediction for each object. Experiments show that modeling each detection as a distribution rather than a single deterministic box leads to better overall detection performance. Benchmark results show that this approach has significantly lower runtime than other recent detectors and that it achieves state-of-the-art performance when compared on a large dataset that has enough data to overcome the challenges of training on the range view. 

Title: Learning Fast Adaptation with Meta Strategy Optimization
Abstract:  The ability to walk in new scenarios is a key milestone on the path toward real-world applications of legged robots. In this work, we introduce Meta Strategy Optimization, a meta-learning algorithm for training policies with latent variable inputs that can quickly adapt to new scenarios with a handful of trials in the target environment. The key idea behind MSO is to expose the same adaptation process, Strategy Optimization (SO), to both the training and testing phases. This allows MSO to effectively learn locomotion skills as well as a latent space that is suitable for fast adaptation. We evaluate our method on a real quadruped robot and demonstrate successful adaptation in various scenarios, including sim-to-real transfer, walking with a weakened motor, or climbing up a slope. Furthermore, we quantitatively analyze the generalization capability of the trained policy in simulated environments. Both real and simulated experiments show that our method outperforms previous methods in adaptation to novel tasks. 

Title: Detection and Tracking of Small Objects in Sparse 3D Laser Range Data
Abstract:  Detection and tracking of dynamic objects is a key feature for autonomous behavior in a continuously changing environment. With the increasing popularity and capability of micro aerial vehicles (MAVs) efficient algorithms have to be utilized to enable multi object tracking on limited hardware and data provided by lightweight sensors. We present a novel segmentation approach based on a combination of median filters and an efficient pipeline for detection and tracking of small objects within sparse point clouds generated by a Velodyne VLP-16 sensor. We achieve real-time performance on a single core of our MAV hardware by exploiting the inherent structure of the data. Our approach is evaluated on simulated and real scans of in- and outdoor environments, obtaining results comparable to the state of the art. Additionally, we provide an application for filtering the dynamic and mapping the static part of the data, generating further insights into the performance of the pipeline on unlabeled data. 

Title: Higher Order Function Networks for View Planning and Multi-View Reconstruction
Abstract:  We consider the problem of planning views for a robot to acquire images of an object for visual inspection and reconstruction. In contrast to offline methods which require a 3D model of the object as input or online methods which rely on only local measurements, our method uses a neural network which encodes shape information for a large number of objects. We build on recent deep learning methods capable of generating a complete 3D reconstruction of an object from a single image. Specifically, in this work, we extend a recent method which uses Higher Order Functions (HOF) to represent the shape of the object. We present a new generalization of this method to incorporate multiple images as input and establish a connection between visibility and reconstruction quality. This relationship forms the foundation of our view planning method where we compute viewpoints to visually cover the output of the multi-view HOF network with as few images as possible. Experiments indicate that our method provides a good compromise between online and offline methods: Similar to online methods, our method does not require the true object model as input. In terms of number of views, it is much more efficient. In most cases, its performance is comparable to the optimal offline case even on object classes the network has not been trained on. 

Title: Vision-model-based Real-time Localization of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle for Autonomous Structure Inspection under GPS-denied Environment
Abstract:  UAVs have been widely used in visual inspections of buildings, bridges and other structures. In either outdoor autonomous or semi-autonomous flights missions strong GPS signal is vital for UAV to locate its own positions. However, strong GPS signal is not always available, and it can degrade or fully loss underneath large structures or close to power lines, which can cause serious control issues or even UAV crashes. Such limitations highly restricted the applications of UAV as a routine inspection tool in various domains. In this paper a vision-model-based real-time self-positioning method is proposed to support autonomous aerial inspection without the need of GPS support. Compared to other localization methods that requires additional onboard sensors, the proposed method uses a single camera to continuously estimate the inflight poses of UAV. Each step of the proposed method is discussed in detail, and its performance is tested through an indoor test case. 

Title: ShapeNet: An Information-Rich 3D Model Repository
Abstract:  We present ShapeNet: a richly-annotated, large-scale repository of shapes represented by 3D CAD models of objects. ShapeNet contains 3D models from a multitude of semantic categories and organizes them under the WordNet taxonomy. It is a collection of datasets providing many semantic annotations for each 3D model such as consistent rigid alignments, parts and bilateral symmetry planes, physical sizes, keywords, as well as other planned annotations. Annotations are made available through a public web-based interface to enable data visualization of object attributes, promote data-driven geometric analysis, and provide a large-scale quantitative benchmark for research in computer graphics and vision. At the time of this technical report, ShapeNet has indexed more than 3,000,000 models, 220,000 models out of which are classified into 3,135 categories (WordNet synsets). In this report we describe the ShapeNet effort as a whole, provide details for all currently available datasets, and summarize future plans. 

Title: Learning RGB-D Feature Embeddings for Unseen Object Instance Segmentation
Abstract:  Segmenting unseen objects in cluttered scenes is an important skill that robots need to acquire in order to perform tasks in new environments. In this work, we propose a new method for unseen object instance segmentation by learning RGB-D feature embeddings from synthetic data. A metric learning loss function is utilized to learn to produce pixel-wise feature embeddings such that pixels from the same object are close to each other and pixels from different objects are separated in the embedding space. With the learned feature embeddings, a mean shift clustering algorithm can be applied to discover and segment unseen objects. We further improve the segmentation accuracy with a new two-stage clustering algorithm. Our method demonstrates that non-photorealistic synthetic RGB and depth images can be used to learn feature embeddings that transfer well to real-world images for unseen object instance segmentation. 

Title: Visual-based Autonomous Driving Deployment from a Stochastic and Uncertainty-aware Perspective
Abstract:  End-to-end visual-based imitation learning has been widely applied in autonomous driving. When deploying the trained visual-based driving policy, a deterministic command is usually directly applied without considering the uncertainty of the input data. Such kind of policies may bring dramatical damage when applied in the real world. In this paper, we follow the recent real-to-sim pipeline by translating the testing world image back to the training domain when using the trained policy. In the translating process, a stochastic generator is used to generate various images stylized under the training domain randomly or directionally. Based on those translated images, the trained uncertainty-aware imitation learning policy would output both the predicted action and the data uncertainty motivated by the aleatoric loss function. Through the uncertainty-aware imitation learning policy, we can easily choose the safest one with the lowest uncertainty among the generated images. Experiments in the Carla navigation benchmark show that our strategy outperforms previous methods, especially in dynamic environments. 

Title: Estimating Forces of Robotic Pouring Using a LSTM RNN
Abstract:  In machine learning, it is very important for a robot to be able to estimate dynamics from sequences of input data. This problem can be solved using a recurrent neural network. In this paper, we will discuss the preprocessing of 10 states of the dataset, then the use of a LSTM recurrent neural network to estimate one output state (dynamics) from the other 9 input states. We will discuss the architecture of the recurrent neural network, the data collection and preprocessing, the loss function, the results of the test data, and the discussion of changes that could improve the network. The results of this paper will be used for artificial intelligence research and identify the capabilities of a LSTM recurrent neural network architecture to estimate dynamics of a system. 

Title: Optical Non-Line-of-Sight Physics-based 3D Human Pose Estimation
Abstract:  We describe a method for 3D human pose estimation from transient images (i.e., a 3D spatio-temporal histogram of photons) acquired by an optical non-line-of-sight (NLOS) imaging system. Our method can perceive 3D human pose by `looking around corners' through the use of light indirectly reflected by the environment. We bring together a diverse set of technologies from NLOS imaging, human pose estimation and deep reinforcement learning to construct an end-to-end data processing pipeline that converts a raw stream of photon measurements into a full 3D human pose sequence estimate. Our contributions are the design of data representation process which includes (1) a learnable inverse point spread function (PSF) to convert raw transient images into a deep feature vector; (2) a neural humanoid control policy conditioned on the transient image feature and learned from interactions with a physics simulator; and (3) a data synthesis and augmentation strategy based on depth data that can be transferred to a real-world NLOS imaging system. Our preliminary experiments suggest that our method is able to generalize to real-world NLOS measurement to estimate physically-valid 3D human poses. 

Title: Learning a Controller Fusion Network by Online Trajectory Filtering for Vision-based UAV Racing
Abstract:  Autonomous UAV racing has recently emerged as an interesting research problem. The dream is to beat humans in this new fast-paced sport. A common approach is to learn an end-to-end policy that directly predicts controls from raw images by imitating an expert. However, such a policy is limited by the expert it imitates and scaling to other environments and vehicle dynamics is difficult. One approach to overcome the drawbacks of an end-to-end policy is to train a network only on the perception task and handle control with a PID or MPC controller. However, a single controller must be extensively tuned and cannot usually cover the whole state space. In this paper, we propose learning an optimized controller using a DNN that fuses multiple controllers. The network learns a robust controller with online trajectory filtering, which suppresses noisy trajectories and imperfections of individual controllers. The result is a network that is able to learn a good fusion of filtered trajectories from different controllers leading to significant improvements in overall performance. We compare our trained network to controllers it has learned from, end-to-end baselines and human pilots in a realistic simulation; our network beats all baselines in extensive experiments and approaches the performance of a professional human pilot. A video summarizing this work is available at https://youtu.be/hGKlE5X9Z5U 

Title: Deep Detection of People and their Mobility Aids for a Hospital Robot
Abstract:  Robots operating in populated environments encounter many different types of people, some of whom might have an advanced need for cautious interaction, because of physical impairments or their advanced age. Robots therefore need to recognize such advanced demands to provide appropriate assistance, guidance or other forms of support. In this paper, we propose a depth-based perception pipeline that estimates the position and velocity of people in the environment and categorizes them according to the mobility aids they use: pedestrian, person in wheelchair, person in a wheelchair with a person pushing them, person with crutches and person using a walker. We present a fast region proposal method that feeds a Region-based Convolutional Network (Fast R-CNN). With this, we speed up the object detection process by a factor of seven compared to a dense sliding window approach. We furthermore propose a probabilistic position, velocity and class estimator to smooth the CNN's detections and account for occlusions and misclassifications. In addition, we introduce a new hospital dataset with over 17,000 annotated RGB-D images. Extensive experiments confirm that our pipeline successfully keeps track of people and their mobility aids, even in challenging situations with multiple people from different categories and frequent occlusions. Videos of our experiments and the dataset are available at http://www2.informatik.uni-freiburg.de/~kollmitz/MobilityAids 

Title: A Closer Look at Deep Policy Gradients
Abstract:  We study how the behavior of deep policy gradient algorithms reflects the conceptual framework motivating their development. To this end, we propose a fine-grained analysis of state-of-the-art methods based on key elements of this framework: gradient estimation, value prediction, and optimization landscapes. Our results show that the behavior of deep policy gradient algorithms often deviates from what their motivating framework would predict: the surrogate objective does not match the true reward landscape, learned value estimators fail to fit the true value function, and gradient estimates poorly correlate with the "true" gradient. The mismatch between predicted and empirical behavior we uncover highlights our poor understanding of current methods, and indicates the need to move beyond current benchmark-centric evaluation methods. 

Title: PFAx: Predictable Feature Analysis to Perform Control
Abstract:  Predictable Feature Analysis (PFA) (Richthofer, Wiskott, ICMLA 2015) is an algorithm that performs dimensionality reduction on high dimensional input signal. It extracts those subsignals that are most predictable according to a certain prediction model. We refer to these extracted signals as predictable features. In this work we extend the notion of PFA to take supplementary information into account for improving its predictions. Such information can be a multidimensional signal like the main input to PFA, but is regarded external. That means it won't participate in the feature extraction - no features get extracted or composed of it. Features will be exclusively extracted from the main input such that they are most predictable based on themselves and the supplementary information. We refer to this enhanced PFA as PFAx (PFA extended). Even more important than improving prediction quality is to observe the effect of supplementary information on feature selection. PFAx transparently provides insight how the supplementary information adds to prediction quality and whether it is valuable at all. Finally we show how to invert that relation and can generate the supplementary information such that it would yield a certain desired outcome of the main signal. We apply this to a setting inspired by reinforcement learning and let the algorithm learn how to control an agent in an environment. With this method it is feasible to locally optimize the agent's state, i.e. reach a certain goal that is near enough. We are preparing a follow-up paper that extends this method such that also global optimization is feasible. 

Title: Auxiliary Tasks Speed Up Learning PointGoal Navigation
Abstract:  PointGoal Navigation is an embodied task that requires agents to navigate to a specified point in an unseen environment. Wijmans et al. showed that this task is solvable but their method is computationally prohibitive, requiring 2.5 billion frames and 180 GPU-days. In this work, we develop a method to significantly increase sample and time efficiency in learning PointNav using self-supervised auxiliary tasks (e.g. predicting the action taken between two egocentric observations, predicting the distance between two observations from a trajectory,etc.).We find that naively combining multiple auxiliary tasks improves sample efficiency,but only provides marginal gains beyond a point. To overcome this, we use attention to combine representations learnt from individual auxiliary tasks. Our best agent is 5x faster to reach the performance of the previous state-of-the-art, DD-PPO, at 40M frames, and improves on DD-PPO's performance at40M frames by 0.16 SPL. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/joel99/habitat-pointnav-aux. 

Title: Robot Calligraphy using Pseudospectral Optimal Control in Conjunction with a Novel Dynamic Brush Model
Abstract:  Chinese calligraphy is a unique art form with great artistic value but difficult to master. In this paper, we formulate the calligraphy writing problem as a trajectory optimization problem, and propose an improved virtual brush model for simulating the real writing process. Our approach is inspired by pseudospectral optimal control in that we parameterize the actuator trajectory for each stroke as a Chebyshev polynomial. The proposed dynamic virtual brush model plays a key role in formulating the objective function to be optimized. Our approach shows excellent performance in drawing aesthetically pleasing characters, and does so much more efficiently than previous work, opening up the possibility to achieve real-time closed-loop control. 

Title: Discovering Latent States for Model Learning: Applying Sensorimotor Contingencies Theory and Predictive Processing to Model Context
Abstract:  Autonomous robots need to be able to adapt to unforeseen situations and to acquire new skills through trial and error. Reinforcement learning in principle offers a suitable methodological framework for this kind of autonomous learning. However current computational reinforcement learning agents mostly learn each individual skill entirely from scratch. How can we enable artificial agents, such as robots, to acquire some form of generic knowledge, which they could leverage for the learning of new skills? This paper argues that, like the brain, the cognitive system of artificial agents has to develop a world model to support adaptive behavior and learning. Inspiration is taken from two recent developments in the cognitive science literature: predictive processing theories of cognition, and the sensorimotor contingencies theory of perception. Based on these, a hypothesis is formulated about what the content of information might be that is encoded in an internal world model, and how an agent could autonomously acquire it. A computational model is described to formalize this hypothesis, and is evaluated in a series of simulation experiments. 

Title: Simultaneous Mapping and Target Driven Navigation
Abstract:  This work presents a modular architecture for simultaneous mapping and target driven navigation in indoors environments. The semantic and appearance stored in 2.5D map is distilled from RGB images, semantic segmentation and outputs of object detectors by convolutional neural networks. Given this representation, the mapping module learns to localize the agent and register consecutive observations in the map. The navigation task is then formulated as a problem of learning a policy for reaching semantic targets using current observations and the up-to-date map. We demonstrate that the use of semantic information improves localization accuracy and the ability of storing spatial semantic map aids the target driven navigation policy. The two modules are evaluated separately and jointly on Active Vision Dataset and Matterport3D environments, demonstrating improved performance on both localization and navigation tasks. 

Title: Continual Learning for Robotics: Definition, Framework, Learning Strategies, Opportunities and Challenges
Abstract:  Continual learning (CL) is a particular machine learning paradigm where the data distribution and learning objective changes through time, or where all the training data and objective criteria are never available at once. The evolution of the learning process is modeled by a sequence of learning experiences where the goal is to be able to learn new skills all along the sequence without forgetting what has been previously learned. Continual learning also aims at the same time at optimizing the memory, the computation power and the speed during the learning process. An important challenge for machine learning is not necessarily finding solutions that work in the real world but rather finding stable algorithms that can learn in real world. Hence, the ideal approach would be tackling the real world in a embodied platform: an autonomous agent. Continual learning would then be effective in an autonomous agent or robot, which would learn autonomously through time about the external world, and incrementally develop a set of complex skills and knowledge. Robotic agents have to learn to adapt and interact with their environment using a continuous stream of observations. Some recent approaches aim at tackling continual learning for robotics, but most recent papers on continual learning only experiment approaches in simulation or with static datasets. Unfortunately, the evaluation of those algorithms does not provide insights on whether their solutions may help continual learning in the context of robotics. This paper aims at reviewing the existing state of the art of continual learning, summarizing existing benchmarks and metrics, and proposing a framework for presenting and evaluating both robotics and non robotics approaches in a way that makes transfer between both fields easier. 

Title: Simultaneous Edge Alignment and Learning
Abstract:  Edge detection is among the most fundamental vision problems for its role in perceptual grouping and its wide applications. Recent advances in representation learning have led to considerable improvements in this area. Many state of the art edge detection models are learned with fully convolutional networks (FCNs). However, FCN-based edge learning tends to be vulnerable to misaligned labels due to the delicate structure of edges. While such problem was considered in evaluation benchmarks, similar issue has not been explicitly addressed in general edge learning. In this paper, we show that label misalignment can cause considerably degraded edge learning quality, and address this issue by proposing a simultaneous edge alignment and learning framework. To this end, we formulate a probabilistic model where edge alignment is treated as latent variable optimization, and is learned end-to-end during network training. Experiments show several applications of this work, including improved edge detection with state of the art performance, and automatic refinement of noisy annotations. 

Title: Learning Functionally Decomposed Hierarchies for Continuous Control Tasks with Path Planning
Abstract:  We present HiDe, a novel hierarchical reinforcement learning architecture that successfully solves long horizon control tasks and generalizes to unseen test scenarios. Functional decomposition between planning and low-level control is achieved by explicitly separating the state-action spaces across the hierarchy, which allows the integration of task-relevant knowledge per layer. We propose an RL-based planner to efficiently leverage the information in the planning layer of the hierarchy, while the control layer learns a goal-conditioned control policy. The hierarchy is trained jointly but allows for the composition of different policies such as transferring layers across multiple agents. We experimentally show that our method generalizes across unseen test environments and can scale to tasks well beyond 2x horizon length compared to both learning and non-learning based approaches. We evaluate on complex continuous control tasks with sparse rewards, including navigation and robot manipulation. See videos https://sites.google.com/view/hide-rl. 

Title: Using Parameterized Black-Box Priors to Scale Up Model-Based Policy Search for Robotics
Abstract:  The most data-efficient algorithms for reinforcement learning in robotics are model-based policy search algorithms, which alternate between learning a dynamical model of the robot and optimizing a policy to maximize the expected return given the model and its uncertainties. Among the few proposed approaches, the recently introduced Black-DROPS algorithm exploits a black-box optimization algorithm to achieve both high data-efficiency and good computation times when several cores are used; nevertheless, like all model-based policy search approaches, Black-DROPS does not scale to high dimensional state/action spaces. In this paper, we introduce a new model learning procedure in Black-DROPS that leverages parameterized black-box priors to (1) scale up to high-dimensional systems, and (2) be robust to large inaccuracies of the prior information. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach with the "pendubot" swing-up task in simulation and with a physical hexapod robot (48D state space, 18D action space) that has to walk forward as fast as possible. The results show that our new algorithm is more data-efficient than previous model-based policy search algorithms (with and without priors) and that it can allow a physical 6-legged robot to learn new gaits in only 16 to 30 seconds of interaction time. 

Title: Keyframe-based monocular SLAM: design, survey, and future directions
Abstract:  Extensive research in the field of monocular SLAM for the past fifteen years has yielded workable systems that found their way into various applications in robotics and augmented reality. Although filter-based monocular SLAM systems were common at some time, the more efficient keyframe-based solutions are becoming the de facto methodology for building a monocular SLAM system. The objective of this paper is threefold: first, the paper serves as a guideline for people seeking to design their own monocular SLAM according to specific environmental constraints. Second, it presents a survey that covers the various keyframe-based monocular SLAM systems in the literature, detailing the components of their implementation, and critically assessing the specific strategies made in each proposed solution. Third, the paper provides insight into the direction of future research in this field, to address the major limitations still facing monocular SLAM; namely, in the issues of illumination changes, initialization, highly dynamic motion, poorly textured scenes, repetitive textures, map maintenance, and failure recovery. 

Title: Building an Affordances Map with Interactive Perception
Abstract:  Robots need to understand their environment to perform their task. If it is possible to pre-program a visual scene analysis process in closed environments, robots operating in an open environment would benefit from the ability to learn it through their interaction with their environment. This ability furthermore opens the way to the acquisition of affordances maps in which the action capabilities of the robot structure its visual scene understanding. We propose an approach to build such affordances maps by relying on an interactive perception approach and an online classification. In the proposed formalization of affordances, actions and effects are related to visual features, not objects, and they can be combined. We have tested the approach on three action primitives and on a real PR2 robot. 

Title: Unsupervised Perceptual Rewards for Imitation Learning
Abstract:  Reward function design and exploration time are arguably the biggest obstacles to the deployment of reinforcement learning (RL) agents in the real world. In many real-world tasks, designing a reward function takes considerable hand engineering and often requires additional sensors to be installed just to measure whether the task has been executed successfully. Furthermore, many interesting tasks consist of multiple implicit intermediate steps that must be executed in sequence. Even when the final outcome can be measured, it does not necessarily provide feedback on these intermediate steps. To address these issues, we propose leveraging the abstraction power of intermediate visual representations learned by deep models to quickly infer perceptual reward functions from small numbers of demonstrations. We present a method that is able to identify key intermediate steps of a task from only a handful of demonstration sequences, and automatically identify the most discriminative features for identifying these steps. This method makes use of the features in a pre-trained deep model, but does not require any explicit specification of sub-goals. The resulting reward functions can then be used by an RL agent to learn to perform the task in real-world settings. To evaluate the learned reward, we present qualitative results on two real-world tasks and a quantitative evaluation against a human-designed reward function. We also show that our method can be used to learn a real-world door opening skill using a real robot, even when the demonstration used for reward learning is provided by a human using their own hand. To our knowledge, these are the first results showing that complex robotic manipulation skills can be learned directly and without supervised labels from a video of a human performing the task. Supplementary material and data are available at https://sermanet.github.io/rewards 

Title: Learning under Misspecified Objective Spaces
Abstract:  Learning robot objective functions from human input has become increasingly important, but state-of-the-art techniques assume that the human's desired objective lies within the robot's hypothesis space. When this is not true, even methods that keep track of uncertainty over the objective fail because they reason about which hypothesis might be correct, and not whether any of the hypotheses are correct. We focus specifically on learning from physical human corrections during the robot's task execution, where not having a rich enough hypothesis space leads to the robot updating its objective in ways that the person did not actually intend. We observe that such corrections appear irrelevant to the robot, because they are not the best way of achieving any of the candidate objectives. Instead of naively trusting and learning from every human interaction, we propose robots learn conservatively by reasoning in real time about how relevant the human's correction is for the robot's hypothesis space. We test our inference method in an experiment with human interaction data, and demonstrate that this alleviates unintended learning in an in-person user study with a 7DoF robot manipulator. 

Title: Learning Whole-Body Human-Robot Haptic Interaction in Social Contexts
Abstract:  This paper presents a learning-from-demonstration (LfD) framework for teaching human-robot social interactions that involve whole-body haptic interaction, i.e. direct human-robot contact over the full robot body. The performance of existing LfD frameworks suffers in such interactions due to the high dimensionality and spatiotemporal sparsity of the demonstration data. We show that by leveraging this sparsity, we can reduce the data dimensionality without incurring a significant accuracy penalty, and introduce three strategies for doing so. By combining these techniques with an LfD framework for learning multimodal human-robot interactions, we can model the spatiotemporal relationship between the tactile and kinesthetic information during whole-body haptic interactions. Using a teleoperated bimanual robot equipped with 61 force sensors, we experimentally demonstrate that a model trained with 121 sample hugs from 4 participants generalizes well to unseen inputs and human partners. 

Title: RCAMP: A Resilient Communication-Aware Motion Planner for Mobile Robots with Autonomous Repair of Wireless Connectivity
Abstract:  Mobile robots, be it autonomous or teleoperated, require stable communication with the base station to exchange valuable information. Given the stochastic elements in radio signal propagation, such as shadowing and fading, and the possibilities of unpredictable events or hardware failures, communication loss often presents a significant mission risk, both in terms of probability and impact, especially in Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) operations. Depending on the circumstances, disconnected robots are either abandoned or attempt to autonomously back-trace their way to the base station. Although recent results in Communication-Aware Motion Planning can be used to effectively manage connectivity with robots, there are no results focusing on autonomously re-establishing the wireless connectivity of a mobile robot without back-tracking or using detailed a priori information of the network. In this paper, we present a robust and online radio signal mapping method using Gaussian Random Fields and propose a Resilient Communication-Aware Motion Planner (RCAMP) that integrates the above signal mapping framework with a motion planner. RCAMP considers both the environment and the physical constraints of the robot, based on the available sensory information. We also propose a self-repair strategy using RCMAP, that takes both connectivity and the goal position into account when driving to a connection-safe position in the event of a communication loss. We demonstrate the proposed planner in a set of realistic simulations of an exploration task in single or multi-channel communication scenarios. 

Title: Safe Reinforcement Learning on Autonomous Vehicles
Abstract:  There have been numerous advances in reinforcement learning, but the typically unconstrained exploration of the learning process prevents the adoption of these methods in many safety critical applications. Recent work in safe reinforcement learning uses idealized models to achieve their guarantees, but these models do not easily accommodate the stochasticity or high-dimensionality of real world systems. We investigate how prediction provides a general and intuitive framework to constraint exploration, and show how it can be used to safely learn intersection handling behaviors on an autonomous vehicle. 

Title: Towards Robotic Eye Surgery: Marker-free, Online Hand-eye Calibration using Optical Coherence Tomography Images
Abstract:  Ophthalmic microsurgery is known to be a challenging operation, which requires very precise and dexterous manipulation. Image guided robot-assisted surgery (RAS) is a promising solution that brings significant improvements in outcomes and reduces the physical limitations of human surgeons. However, this technology must be further developed before it can be routinely used in clinics. One of the problems is the lack of proper calibration between the robotic manipulator and appropriate imaging device. In this work, we developed a flexible framework for hand-eye calibration of an ophthalmic robot with a microscope-integrated Optical Coherence Tomography (MIOCT) without any markers. The proposed method consists of three main steps: a) we estimate the OCT calibration parameters; b) with micro-scale displacements controlled by the robot, we detect and segment the needle tip in 3D-OCT volume; c) we find the transformation between the coordinate system of the OCT camera and the coordinate system of the robot. We verified the capability of our framework in ex-vivo pig eye experiments and compared the results with a reference method (marker-based). In all experiments, our method showed a small difference from the marker based method, with a mean calibration error of 9.2 $\mu$m and 7.0 $\mu$m, respectively. Additionally, the noise test shows the robustness of the proposed method. 

Title: Neural Graph Evolution: Towards Efficient Automatic Robot Design
Abstract:  Despite the recent successes in robotic locomotion control, the design of robot relies heavily on human engineering. Automatic robot design has been a long studied subject, but the recent progress has been slowed due to the large combinatorial search space and the difficulty in evaluating the found candidates. To address the two challenges, we formulate automatic robot design as a graph search problem and perform evolution search in graph space. We propose Neural Graph Evolution (NGE), which performs selection on current candidates and evolves new ones iteratively. Different from previous approaches, NGE uses graph neural networks to parameterize the control policies, which reduces evaluation cost on new candidates with the help of skill transfer from previously evaluated designs. In addition, NGE applies Graph Mutation with Uncertainty (GM-UC) by incorporating model uncertainty, which reduces the search space by balancing exploration and exploitation. We show that NGE significantly outperforms previous methods by an order of magnitude. As shown in experiments, NGE is the first algorithm that can automatically discover kinematically preferred robotic graph structures, such as a fish with two symmetrical flat side-fins and a tail, or a cheetah with athletic front and back legs. Instead of using thousands of cores for weeks, NGE efficiently solves searching problem within a day on a single 64 CPU-core Amazon EC2 machine. 

Title: Argoverse: 3D Tracking and Forecasting with Rich Maps
Abstract:  We present Argoverse -- two datasets designed to support autonomous vehicle machine learning tasks such as 3D tracking and motion forecasting. Argoverse was collected by a fleet of autonomous vehicles in Pittsburgh and Miami. The Argoverse 3D Tracking dataset includes 360 degree images from 7 cameras with overlapping fields of view, 3D point clouds from long range LiDAR, 6-DOF pose, and 3D track annotations. Notably, it is the only modern AV dataset that provides forward-facing stereo imagery. The Argoverse Motion Forecasting dataset includes more than 300,000 5-second tracked scenarios with a particular vehicle identified for trajectory forecasting. Argoverse is the first autonomous vehicle dataset to include "HD maps" with 290 km of mapped lanes with geometric and semantic metadata. All data is released under a Creative Commons license at www.argoverse.org. In our baseline experiments, we illustrate how detailed map information such as lane direction, driveable area, and ground height improves the accuracy of 3D object tracking and motion forecasting. Our tracking and forecasting experiments represent only an initial exploration of the use of rich maps in robotic perception. We hope that Argoverse will enable the research community to explore these problems in greater depth. 

Title: SGANVO: Unsupervised Deep Visual Odometry and Depth Estimation with Stacked Generative Adversarial Networks
Abstract:  Recently end-to-end unsupervised deep learning methods have achieved an effect beyond geometric methods for visual depth and ego-motion estimation tasks. These data-based learning methods perform more robustly and accurately in some of the challenging scenes. The encoder-decoder network has been widely used in the depth estimation and the RCNN has brought significant improvements in the ego-motion estimation. Furthermore, the latest use of Generative Adversarial Nets(GANs) in depth and ego-motion estimation has demonstrated that the estimation could be further improved by generating pictures in the game learning process. This paper proposes a novel unsupervised network system for visual depth and ego-motion estimation: Stacked Generative Adversarial Network(SGANVO). It consists of a stack of GAN layers, of which the lowest layer estimates the depth and ego-motion while the higher layers estimate the spatial features. It can also capture the temporal dynamic due to the use of a recurrent representation across the layers. See Fig.1 for details. We select the most commonly used KITTI [1] data set for evaluation. The evaluation results show that our proposed method can produce better or comparable results in depth and ego-motion estimation. 

Title: Learning to Pour
Abstract:  Pouring is a simple task people perform daily. It is the second most frequently executed motion in cooking scenarios, after pick-and-place. We present a pouring trajectory generation approach, which uses force feedback from the cup to determine the future velocity of pouring. The approach uses recurrent neural networks as its building blocks. We collected the pouring demonstrations which we used for training. To test our approach in simulation, we also created and trained a force estimation system. The simulated experiments show that the system is able to generalize to single unseen element of the pouring characteristics. 

Title: Geometry-Based Region Proposals for Real-Time Robot Detection of Tabletop Objects
Abstract:  We present a novel object detection pipeline for localization and recognition in three dimensional environments. Our approach makes use of an RGB-D sensor and combines state-of-the-art techniques from the robotics and computer vision communities to create a robust, real-time detection system. We focus specifically on solving the object detection problem for tabletop scenes, a common environment for assistive manipulators. Our detection pipeline locates objects in a point cloud representation of the scene. These clusters are subsequently used to compute a bounding box around each object in the RGB space. Each defined patch is then fed into a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) for object recognition. We also demonstrate that our region proposal method can be used to develop novel datasets that are both large and diverse enough to train deep learning models, and easy enough to collect that end-users can develop their own datasets. Lastly, we validate the resulting system through an extensive analysis of the accuracy and run-time of the full pipeline. 

Title: Unsupervised Learning of Depth and Deep Representation for Visual Odometry from Monocular Videos in a Metric Space
Abstract:  For ego-motion estimation, the feature representation of the scenes is crucial. Previous methods indicate that both the low-level and semantic feature-based methods can achieve promising results. Therefore, the incorporation of hierarchical feature representation may benefit from both methods. From this perspective, we propose a novel direct feature odometry framework, named DFO, for depth estimation and hierarchical feature representation learning from monocular videos. By exploiting the metric distance, our framework is able to learn the hierarchical feature representation without supervision. The pose is obtained with a coarse-to-fine approach from high-level to low-level features in enlarged feature maps. The pixel-level attention mask can be self-learned to provide the prior information. In contrast to the previous methods, our proposed method calculates the camera motion with a direct method rather than regressing the ego-motion from the pose network. With this approach, the consistency of the scale factor of translation can be constrained. Additionally, the proposed method is thus compatible with the traditional SLAM pipeline. Experiments on the KITTI dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. 

Title: Modular Tracking Framework: A Unified Approach to Registration based Tracking
Abstract:  This paper presents a modular, extensible and highly efficient open source framework for registration based tracking called Modular Tracking Framework (MTF). Targeted at robotics applications, it is implemented entirely in C++ and designed from the ground up to easily integrate with systems that support any of several major vision and robotics libraries including OpenCV, ROS, ViSP and Eigen. It implements more methods, is faster, and more precise than other existing systems. Further, the theoretical basis for its design is a new way to conceptualize registration based trackers that decomposes them into three constituent sub modules - Search Method (SM), Appearance Model (AM) and State Space Model (SSM). In the process, we integrate many important advances published after Baker \& Matthews' landmark work in 2004. In addition to being a practical solution for fast and high precision tracking, MTF can also serve as a useful research tool by allowing existing and new methods for any of the sub modules to be studied better. When a new method is introduced for one of these, the breakdown can help to experimentally find the combination of methods for the others that is optimum for it. By extensive use of generic programming, MTF makes it easy to plug in a new method for any of the sub modules so that it can not only be tested comprehensively with existing methods but also become immediately available for deployment in any project that uses the framework. With 16 AMs, 11 SMs and 13 SSMs implemented already, MTF provides over 2000 distinct single layer trackers. It also allows two or more of these to be combined together in several ways to create a practically unlimited variety of novel multi layer trackers. 

Title: Stitching Videos from a Fisheye Lens Camera and a Wide-Angle Lens Camera for Telepresence Robots
Abstract:  Many telepresence robots are equipped with a forward-facing camera for video communication and a downward-facing camera for navigation. In this paper, we propose to stitch videos from the FF-camera with a wide-angle lens and the DF-camera with a fisheye lens for telepresence robots. We aim at providing more compact and efficient visual feedback for the user interface of telepresence robots with user-friendly interactive experiences. To this end, we present a multi-homography-based video stitching method which stitches videos from a wide-angle camera and a fisheye camera. The method consists of video image alignment, seam cutting, and image blending. We directly align the wide-angle video image and the fisheye video image based on the multi-homography alignment without calibration, distortion correction, and unwarping procedures. Thus, we can obtain a stitched video with shape preservation in the non-overlapping regions and alignment in the overlapping area for telepresence. To alleviate ghosting effects caused by moving objects and/or moving cameras during telepresence robot driving, an optimal seam is found for aligned video composition, and the optimal seam will be updated in subsequent frames, considering spatial and temporal coherence. The final stitched video is created by image blending based on the optimal seam. We conducted a user study to demonstrate the effectiveness of our method and the superiority of telepresence robots with a stitched video as visual feedback. 

Title: Can Autonomous Vehicles Identify, Recover From, and Adapt to Distribution Shifts?
Abstract:  Out-of-training-distribution (OOD) scenarios are a common challenge of learning agents at deployment, typically leading to arbitrary deductions and poorly-informed decisions. In principle, detection of and adaptation to OOD scenes can mitigate their adverse effects. In this paper, we highlight the limitations of current approaches to novel driving scenes and propose an epistemic uncertainty-aware planning method, called \emph{robust imitative planning} (RIP). Our method can detect and recover from some distribution shifts, reducing the overconfident and catastrophic extrapolations in OOD scenes. If the model's uncertainty is too great to suggest a safe course of action, the model can instead query the expert driver for feedback, enabling sample-efficient online adaptation, a variant of our method we term \emph{adaptive robust imitative planning} (AdaRIP). Our methods outperform current state-of-the-art approaches in the nuScenes \emph{prediction} challenge, but since no benchmark evaluating OOD detection and adaption currently exists to assess \emph{control}, we introduce an autonomous car novel-scene benchmark, \texttt{CARNOVEL}, to evaluate the robustness of driving agents to a suite of tasks with distribution shifts. 

Title: SegMap: 3D Segment Mapping using Data-Driven Descriptors
Abstract:  When performing localization and mapping, working at the level of structure can be advantageous in terms of robustness to environmental changes and differences in illumination. This paper presents SegMap: a map representation solution to the localization and mapping problem based on the extraction of segments in 3D point clouds. In addition to facilitating the computationally intensive task of processing 3D point clouds, working at the level of segments addresses the data compression requirements of real-time single- and multi-robot systems. While current methods extract descriptors for the single task of localization, SegMap leverages a data-driven descriptor in order to extract meaningful features that can also be used for reconstructing a dense 3D map of the environment and for extracting semantic information. This is particularly interesting for navigation tasks and for providing visual feedback to end-users such as robot operators, for example in search and rescue scenarios. These capabilities are demonstrated in multiple urban driving and search and rescue experiments. Our method leads to an increase of area under the ROC curve of 28.3% over current state of the art using eigenvalue based features. We also obtain very similar reconstruction capabilities to a model specifically trained for this task. The SegMap implementation will be made available open-source along with easy to run demonstrations at www.github.com/ethz-asl/segmap. A video demonstration is available at https://youtu.be/CMk4w4eRobg. 

Title: Experience Selection Using Dynamics Similarity for Efficient Multi-Source Transfer Learning Between Robots
Abstract:  In the robotics literature, different knowledge transfer approaches have been proposed to leverage the experience from a source task or robot -- real or virtual -- to accelerate the learning process on a new task or robot. A commonly made but infrequently examined assumption is that incorporating experience from a source task or robot will be beneficial. In practice, inappropriate knowledge transfer can result in negative transfer or unsafe behaviour. In this work, inspired by a system gap metric from robust control theory, the $\nu$-gap, we present a data-efficient algorithm for estimating the similarity between pairs of robot systems. In a multi-source inter-robot transfer learning setup, we show that this similarity metric allows us to predict relative transfer performance and thus informatively select experiences from a source robot before knowledge transfer. We demonstrate our approach with quadrotor experiments, where we transfer an inverse dynamics model from a real or virtual source quadrotor to enhance the tracking performance of a target quadrotor on arbitrary hand-drawn trajectories. We show that selecting experiences based on the proposed similarity metric effectively facilitates the learning of the target quadrotor, improving performance by 62% compared to a poorly selected experience. 

Title: Visual Global Localization with a Hybrid WNN-CNN Approach
Abstract:  Currently, self-driving cars rely greatly on the Global Positioning System (GPS) infrastructure, albeit there is an increasing demand for alternative methods for GPS-denied environments. One of them is known as place recognition, which associates images of places with their corresponding positions. We previously proposed systems based on Weightless Neural Networks (WNN) to address this problem as a classification task. This encompasses solely one part of the global localization, which is not precise enough for driverless cars. Instead of just recognizing past places and outputting their poses, it is desired that a global localization system estimates the pose of current place images. In this paper, we propose to tackle this problem as follows. Firstly, given a live image, the place recognition system returns the most similar image and its pose. Then, given live and recollected images, a visual localization system outputs the relative camera pose represented by those images. To estimate the relative camera pose between the recollected and the current images, a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) is trained with the two images as input and a relative pose vector as output. Together, these systems solve the global localization problem using the topological and metric information to approximate the current vehicle pose. The full approach is compared to a Real- Time Kinematic GPS system and a Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) system. Experimental results show that the proposed approach correctly localizes a vehicle 90% of the time with a mean error of 1.20m compared to 1.12m of the SLAM system and 0.37m of the GPS, 89% of the time. 

Title: An Online Evolving Framework for Modeling the Safe Autonomous Vehicle Control System via Online Recognition of Latent Risks
Abstract:  An online evolving framework is proposed to support modeling the safe Automated Vehicle (AV) control system by making the controller able to recognize unexpected situations and react appropriately by choosing a better action. Within the framework, the evolving Finite State Machine (e-FSM), which is an online model able to (1) determine states uniquely as needed, (2) recognize states, and (3) identify state-transitions, is introduced. In this study, the e-FSM's capabilities are explained and illustrated by simulating a simple car-following scenario. As a vehicle controller, the Intelligent Driver Model (IDM) is implemented, and different sets of IDM parameters are assigned to the following vehicle for simulating various situations (including the collision). While simulating the car-following scenario, e-FSM recognizes and determines the states and identifies the transition matrices by suggested methods. To verify if e-FSM can recognize and determine states uniquely, we analyze whether the same state is recognized under the identical situation. The difference between probability distributions of predicted and recognized states is measured by the Jensen-Shannon divergence (JSD) method to validate the accuracy of identified transition-matrices. As shown in the results, the Dead-End state which has latent-risk of the collision is uniquely determined and consistently recognized. Also, the probability distributions of the predicted state are significantly similar to the recognized state, declaring that the state-transitions are precisely identified. 

Title: Naive Bayes Entrapment Detection for Planetary Rovers
Abstract:  Entrapment detection is a prerequisite for planetary rovers to perform autonomous rescue procedure. In this study, rover entrapment and approximated entrapment criteria are formally defined. Entrapment detection using Naive Bayes classifiers is proposed and discussed along with results from experiments where the Naive Bayes entrapment detector is applied to AutoKralwer rovers. And final conclusions and further discussions are presented in the final section. 

Title: Who2com: Collaborative Perception via Learnable Handshake Communication
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose the problem of collaborative perception, where robots can combine their local observations with those of neighboring agents in a learnable way to improve accuracy on a perception task. Unlike existing work in robotics and multi-agent reinforcement learning, we formulate the problem as one where learned information must be shared across a set of agents in a bandwidth-sensitive manner to optimize for scene understanding tasks such as semantic segmentation. Inspired by networking communication protocols, we propose a multi-stage handshake communication mechanism where the neural network can learn to compress relevant information needed for each stage. Specifically, a target agent with degraded sensor data sends a compressed request, the other agents respond with matching scores, and the target agent determines who to connect with (i.e., receive information from). We additionally develop the AirSim-CP dataset and metrics based on the AirSim simulator where a group of aerial robots perceive diverse landscapes, such as roads, grasslands, buildings, etc. We show that for the semantic segmentation task, our handshake communication method significantly improves accuracy by approximately 20% over decentralized baselines, and is comparable to centralized ones using a quarter of the bandwidth. 

Title: Integrating kinematics and environment context into deep inverse reinforcement learning for predicting off-road vehicle trajectories
Abstract:  Predicting the motion of a mobile agent from a third-person perspective is an important component for many robotics applications, such as autonomous navigation and tracking. With accurate motion prediction of other agents, robots can plan for more intelligent behaviors to achieve specified objectives, instead of acting in a purely reactive way. Previous work addresses motion prediction by either only filtering kinematics, or using hand-designed and learned representations of the environment. Instead of separating kinematic and environmental context, we propose a novel approach to integrate both into an inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) framework for trajectory prediction. Instead of exponentially increasing the state-space complexity with kinematics, we propose a two-stage neural network architecture that considers motion and environment together to recover the reward function. The first-stage network learns feature representations of the environment using low-level LiDAR statistics and the second-stage network combines those learned features with kinematics data. We collected over 30 km of off-road driving data and validated experimentally that our method can effectively extract useful environmental and kinematic features. We generate accurate predictions of the distribution of future trajectories of the vehicle, encoding complex behaviors such as multi-modal distributions at road intersections, and even show different predictions at the same intersection depending on the vehicle's speed. 

Title: Topometric Localization with Deep Learning
Abstract:  Compared to LiDAR-based localization methods, which provide high accuracy but rely on expensive sensors, visual localization approaches only require a camera and thus are more cost-effective while their accuracy and reliability typically is inferior to LiDAR-based methods. In this work, we propose a vision-based localization approach that learns from LiDAR-based localization methods by using their output as training data, thus combining a cheap, passive sensor with an accuracy that is on-par with LiDAR-based localization. The approach consists of two deep networks trained on visual odometry and topological localization, respectively, and a successive optimization to combine the predictions of these two networks. We evaluate the approach on a new challenging pedestrian-based dataset captured over the course of six months in varying weather conditions with a high degree of noise. The experiments demonstrate that the localization errors are up to 10 times smaller than with traditional vision-based localization methods. 

Title: SE-SLAM: Semi-Dense Structured Edge-Based Monocular SLAM
Abstract:  Vision-based Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (VSLAM) is a mature problem in Robotics. Most VSLAM systems are feature based methods, which are robust and present high accuracy, but yield sparse maps with limited application for further navigation tasks. Most recently, direct methods which operate directly on image intensity have been introduced, capable of reconstructing richer maps at the cost of higher processing power. In this work, an edge-based monocular SLAM system (SE-SLAM) is proposed as a middle point: edges present good localization as point features, while enabling a structural semidense map reconstruction. However, edges are not easy to associate, track and optimize over time, as they lack descriptors and biunivocal correspondence, unlike point features. To tackle these issues, this paper presents a method to match edges between frames in a consistent manner; a feasible strategy to solve the optimization problem, since its size rapidly increases when working with edges; and the use of non-linear optimization techniques. The resulting system achieves comparable precision to state of the art feature-based and dense/semi-dense systems, while inherently building a structural semi-dense reconstruction of the environment, providing relevant structure data for further navigation algorithms. To achieve such accuracy, state of the art non-linear optimization is needed, over a continuous feed of 10000 edgepoints per frame, to optimize the full semi-dense output. Despite its heavy processing requirements, the system achieves near to real-time operation, thanks to a custom built solver and parallelization of its key stages. In order to encourage further development of edge-based SLAM systems, SE-SLAM source code will be released as open source. 

Title: Variational Gaussian Process State-Space Models
Abstract:  State-space models have been successfully used for more than fifty years in different areas of science and engineering. We present a procedure for efficient variational Bayesian learning of nonlinear state-space models based on sparse Gaussian processes. The result of learning is a tractable posterior over nonlinear dynamical systems. In comparison to conventional parametric models, we offer the possibility to straightforwardly trade off model capacity and computational cost whilst avoiding overfitting. Our main algorithm uses a hybrid inference approach combining variational Bayes and sequential Monte Carlo. We also present stochastic variational inference and online learning approaches for fast learning with long time series. 

Title: Bipedal Walking Robot using Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient
Abstract:  Machine learning algorithms have found several applications in the field of robotics and control systems. The control systems community has started to show interest towards several machine learning algorithms from the sub-domains such as supervised learning, imitation learning and reinforcement learning to achieve autonomous control and intelligent decision making. Amongst many complex control problems, stable bipedal walking has been the most challenging problem. In this paper, we present an architecture to design and simulate a planar bipedal walking robot(BWR) using a realistic robotics simulator, Gazebo. The robot demonstrates successful walking behaviour by learning through several of its trial and errors, without any prior knowledge of itself or the world dynamics. The autonomous walking of the BWR is achieved using reinforcement learning algorithm called Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient(DDPG). DDPG is one of the algorithms for learning controls in continuous action spaces. After training the model in simulation, it was observed that, with a proper shaped reward function, the robot achieved faster walking or even rendered a running gait with an average speed of 0.83 m/s. The gait pattern of the bipedal walker was compared with the actual human walking pattern. The results show that the bipedal walking pattern had similar characteristics to that of a human walking pattern. The video presenting our experiment is available at https://goo.gl/NHXKqR. 

Title: Improving Sample Efficiency in Model-Free Reinforcement Learning from Images
Abstract:  Training an agent to solve control tasks directly from high-dimensional images with model-free reinforcement learning (RL) has proven difficult. A promising approach is to learn a latent representation together with the control policy. However, fitting a high-capacity encoder using a scarce reward signal is sample inefficient and leads to poor performance. Prior work has shown that auxiliary losses, such as image reconstruction, can aid efficient representation learning. However, incorporating reconstruction loss into an off-policy learning algorithm often leads to training instability. We explore the underlying reasons and identify variational autoencoders, used by previous investigations, as the cause of the divergence. Following these findings, we propose effective techniques to improve training stability. This results in a simple approach capable of matching state-of-the-art model-free and model-based algorithms on MuJoCo control tasks. Furthermore, our approach demonstrates robustness to observational noise, surpassing existing approaches in this setting. Code, results, and videos are anonymously available at https://sites.google.com/view/sac-ae/home. 

Title: Robot gains Social Intelligence through Multimodal Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  For robots to coexist with humans in a social world like ours, it is crucial that they possess human-like social interaction skills. Programming a robot to possess such skills is a challenging task. In this paper, we propose a Multimodal Deep Q-Network (MDQN) to enable a robot to learn human-like interaction skills through a trial and error method. This paper aims to develop a robot that gathers data during its interaction with a human and learns human interaction behaviour from the high-dimensional sensory information using end-to-end reinforcement learning. This paper demonstrates that the robot was able to learn basic interaction skills successfully, after 14 days of interacting with people. 

Title: A Real-Time Deep Learning Pedestrian Detector for Robot Navigation
Abstract:  A real-time Deep Learning based method for Pedestrian Detection (PD) is applied to the Human-Aware robot navigation problem. The pedestrian detector combines the Aggregate Channel Features (ACF) detector with a deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) in order to obtain fast and accurate performance. Our solution is firstly evaluated using a set of real images taken from onboard and offboard cameras and, then, it is validated in a typical robot navigation environment with pedestrians (two distinct experiments are conducted). The results on both tests show that our pedestrian detector is robust and fast enough to be used on robot navigation applications. 

Title: Stochastic Adversarial Video Prediction
Abstract:  Being able to predict what may happen in the future requires an in-depth understanding of the physical and causal rules that govern the world. A model that is able to do so has a number of appealing applications, from robotic planning to representation learning. However, learning to predict raw future observations, such as frames in a video, is exceedingly challenging -- the ambiguous nature of the problem can cause a naively designed model to average together possible futures into a single, blurry prediction. Recently, this has been addressed by two distinct approaches: (a) latent variational variable models that explicitly model underlying stochasticity and (b) adversarially-trained models that aim to produce naturalistic images. However, a standard latent variable model can struggle to produce realistic results, and a standard adversarially-trained model underutilizes latent variables and fails to produce diverse predictions. We show that these distinct methods are in fact complementary. Combining the two produces predictions that look more realistic to human raters and better cover the range of possible futures. Our method outperforms prior and concurrent work in these aspects. 

Title: Learning walk and trot from the same objective using different types of exploration
Abstract:  In quadruped gait learning, policy search methods that scale high dimensional continuous action spaces are commonly used. In most approaches, it is necessary to introduce prior knowledge on the gaits to limit the highly non-convex search space of the policies. In this work, we propose a new approach to encode the symmetry properties of the desired gaits, on the initial covariance of the Gaussian search distribution, allowing for strategic exploration. Using episode-based likelihood ratio policy gradient and relative entropy policy search, we learned the gaits walk and trot on a simulated quadruped. Comparing these gaits to random gaits learned by initialized diagonal covariance matrix, we show that the performance can be significantly enhanced. 

Title: Mobile Robot Path Planning in Dynamic Environments through Globally Guided Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Path planning for mobile robots in large dynamic environments is a challenging problem, as the robots are required to efficiently reach their given goals while simultaneously avoiding potential conflicts with other robots or dynamic objects. In the presence of dynamic obstacles, traditional solutions usually employ re-planning strategies, which re-call a planning algorithm to search for an alternative path whenever the robot encounters a conflict. However, such re-planning strategies often cause unnecessary detours. To address this issue, we propose a learning-based technique that exploits environmental spatio-temporal information. Different from existing learning-based methods, we introduce a globally guided reinforcement learning approach (G2RL), which incorporates a novel reward structure that generalizes to arbitrary environments. We apply G2RL to solve the multi-robot path planning problem in a fully distributed reactive manner. We evaluate our method across different map types, obstacle densities, and the number of robots. Experimental results show that G2RL generalizes well, outperforming existing distributed methods, and performing very similarly to fully centralized state-of-the-art benchmarks. 

Title: Robust Semantic Segmentation in Adverse Weather Conditions by means of Sensor Data Fusion
Abstract:  A robust and reliable semantic segmentation in adverse weather conditions is very important for autonomous cars, but most state-of-the-art approaches only achieve high accuracy rates in optimal weather conditions. The reason is that they are only optimized for good weather conditions and given noise models. However, most of them fail, if data with unknown disturbances occur, and their performance decrease enormously. One possibility to still obtain reliable results is to observe the environment with different sensor types, such as camera and lidar, and to fuse the sensor data by means of neural networks, since different sensors behave differently in diverse weather conditions. Hence, the sensors can complement each other by means of an appropriate sensor data fusion. Nevertheless, the fusion-based approaches are still susceptible to disturbances and fail to classify disturbed image areas correctly. This problem can be solved by means of a special training method, the so called Robust Learning Method (RLM), a method by which the neural network learns to handle unknown noise. In this work, two different sensor fusion architectures for semantic segmentation are compared and evaluated on several datasets. Furthermore, it is shown that the RLM increases the robustness in adverse weather conditions enormously, and achieve good results although no disturbance model has been learned by the neural network. 

Title: Associate-3Ddet: Perceptual-to-Conceptual Association for 3D Point Cloud Object Detection
Abstract:  Object detection from 3D point clouds remains a challenging task, though recent studies pushed the envelope with the deep learning techniques. Owing to the severe spatial occlusion and inherent variance of point density with the distance to sensors, appearance of a same object varies a lot in point cloud data. Designing robust feature representation against such appearance changes is hence the key issue in a 3D object detection method. In this paper, we innovatively propose a domain adaptation like approach to enhance the robustness of the feature representation. More specifically, we bridge the gap between the perceptual domain where the feature comes from a real scene and the conceptual domain where the feature is extracted from an augmented scene consisting of non-occlusion point cloud rich of detailed information. This domain adaptation approach mimics the functionality of the human brain when proceeding object perception. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our simple yet effective approach fundamentally boosts the performance of 3D point cloud object detection and achieves the state-of-the-art results. 

Title: CMTS: Conditional Multiple Trajectory Synthesizer for Generating Safety-critical Driving Scenarios
Abstract:  Naturalistic driving trajectories are crucial for the performance of autonomous driving algorithms. However, most of the data is collected in safe scenarios leading to the duplication of trajectories which are easy to be handled by currently developed algorithms. When considering safety, testing algorithms in near-miss scenarios that rarely show up in off-the-shelf datasets is a vital part of the evaluation. As a remedy, we propose a near-miss data synthesizing framework based on Variational Bayesian methods and term it as Conditional Multiple Trajectory Synthesizer (CMTS). We leverage a generative model conditioned on road maps to bridge safe and collision driving data by representing their distribution in the latent space. By sampling from the near-miss distribution, we can synthesize safety-critical data crucial for understanding traffic scenarios but not shown in neither the original dataset nor the collision dataset. Our experimental results demonstrate that the augmented dataset covers more kinds of driving scenarios, especially the near-miss ones, which help improve the trajectory prediction accuracy and the capability of dealing with risky driving scenarios. 

Title: Learning Densities in Feature Space for Reliable Segmentation of Indoor Scenes
Abstract:  Deep learning has enabled remarkable advances in scene understanding, particularly in semantic segmentation tasks. Yet, current state of the art approaches are limited to a closed set of classes, and fail when facing novel elements, also known as out of distribution (OoD) data. This is a problem as autonomous agents will inevitably come across a wide range of objects, all of which cannot be included during training. We propose a novel method to distinguish any object (foreground) from empty building structure (background) in indoor environments. We use normalizing flow to estimate the probability distribution of high-dimensional background descriptors. Foreground objects are therefore detected as areas in an image for which the descriptors are unlikely given the background distribution. As our method does not explicitly learn the representation of individual objects, its performance generalizes well outside of the training examples. Our model results in an innovative solution to reliably segment foreground from background in indoor scenes, which opens the way to a safer deployment of robots in human environments. 

Title: Continual Reinforcement Learning with Diversity Exploration and Adversarial Self-Correction
Abstract:  Deep reinforcement learning has made significant progress in the field of continuous control, such as physical control and autonomous driving. However, it is challenging for a reinforcement model to learn a policy for each task sequentially due to catastrophic forgetting. Specifically, the model would forget knowledge it learned in the past when trained on a new task. We consider this challenge from two perspectives: i) acquiring task-specific skills is difficult since task information and rewards are not highly related; ii) learning knowledge from previous experience is difficult in continuous control domains. In this paper, we introduce an end-to-end framework namely Continual Diversity Adversarial Network (CDAN). We first develop an unsupervised diversity exploration method to learn task-specific skills using an unsupervised objective. Then, we propose an adversarial self-correction mechanism to learn knowledge by exploiting past experience. The two learning procedures are presumably reciprocal. To evaluate the proposed method, we propose a new continuous reinforcement learning environment named Continual Ant Maze (CAM) and a new metric termed Normalized Shorten Distance (NSD). The experimental results confirm the effectiveness of diversity exploration and self-correction. It is worthwhile noting that our final result outperforms baseline by 18.35% in terms of NSD, and 0.61 according to the average reward. 

Title: MQA: Answering the Question via Robotic Manipulation
Abstract:  In this paper,we propose a novel task of Manipulation Question Answering(MQA),a class of Question Answering (QA) task, where the robot is required to find the answer to the question by actively interacting with the environment via manipulation. Considering the tabletop scenario, a heatmap of the scene is generated to facilitate the robot to have a semantic understanding of the scene and an imitation learning approach with semantic understanding metric is proposed to generate manipulation actions which guide the manipulator to explore the tabletop to find the answer to the question. Besides, a novel dataset which contains a variety of tabletop scenarios and corresponding question-answer pairs is established. Extensive experiments have been conducted to validate the effectiveness of the proposed framework. 

Title: Using Neural Networks to Generate Information Maps for Mobile Sensors
Abstract:  Target localization is a critical task for mobile sensors and has many applications. However, generating informative trajectories for these sensors is a challenging research problem. A common method uses information maps that estimate the value of taking measurements from any point in the sensor state space. These information maps are used to generate trajectories; for example, a trajectory might be designed so its distribution of measurements matches the distribution of the information map. Regardless of the trajectory generation method, generating information maps as new observations are made is critical. However, it can be challenging to compute these maps in real-time. We propose using convolutional neural networks to generate information maps from a target estimate and sensor model in real-time. Simulations show that maps are accurately rendered while offering orders of magnitude reduction in computation time. 

Title: Learning from Trajectories via Subgoal Discovery
Abstract:  Learning to solve complex goal-oriented tasks with sparse terminal-only rewards often requires an enormous number of samples. In such cases, using a set of expert trajectories could help to learn faster. However, Imitation Learning (IL) via supervised pre-training with these trajectories may not perform as well and generally requires additional finetuning with expert-in-the-loop. In this paper, we propose an approach which uses the expert trajectories and learns to decompose the complex main task into smaller sub-goals. We learn a function which partitions the state-space into sub-goals, which can then be used to design an extrinsic reward function. We follow a strategy where the agent first learns from the trajectories using IL and then switches to Reinforcement Learning (RL) using the identified sub-goals, to alleviate the errors in the IL step. To deal with states which are under-represented by the trajectory set, we also learn a function to modulate the sub-goal predictions. We show that our method is able to solve complex goal-oriented tasks, which other RL, IL or their combinations in literature are not able to solve. 

Title: Autocamera Calibration for traffic surveillance cameras with wide angle lenses
Abstract:  We propose a method for automatic calibration of a traffic surveillance camera with wide-angle lenses. Video footage of a few minutes is sufficient for the entire calibration process to take place. This method takes in the height of the camera from the ground plane as the only user input to overcome the scale ambiguity. The calibration is performed in two stages, 1. Intrinsic Calibration 2. Extrinsic Calibration. Intrinsic calibration is achieved by assuming an equidistant fisheye distortion and an ideal camera model. Extrinsic calibration is accomplished by estimating the two vanishing points, on the ground plane, from the motion of vehicles at perpendicular intersections. The first stage of intrinsic calibration is also valid for thermal cameras. Experiments have been conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on visible as well as thermal cameras. Index Terms: fish-eye, calibration, thermal camera, intelligent transportation systems, vanishing points 

Title: Taskonomy: Disentangling Task Transfer Learning
Abstract:  Do visual tasks have a relationship, or are they unrelated? For instance, could having surface normals simplify estimating the depth of an image? Intuition answers these questions positively, implying existence of a structure among visual tasks. Knowing this structure has notable values; it is the concept underlying transfer learning and provides a principled way for identifying redundancies across tasks, e.g., to seamlessly reuse supervision among related tasks or solve many tasks in one system without piling up the complexity. We proposes a fully computational approach for modeling the structure of space of visual tasks. This is done via finding (first and higher-order) transfer learning dependencies across a dictionary of twenty six 2D, 2.5D, 3D, and semantic tasks in a latent space. The product is a computational taxonomic map for task transfer learning. We study the consequences of this structure, e.g. nontrivial emerged relationships, and exploit them to reduce the demand for labeled data. For example, we show that the total number of labeled datapoints needed for solving a set of 10 tasks can be reduced by roughly 2/3 (compared to training independently) while keeping the performance nearly the same. We provide a set of tools for computing and probing this taxonomical structure including a solver that users can employ to devise efficient supervision policies for their use cases. 

Title: Stochastic Variational Video Prediction
Abstract:  Predicting the future in real-world settings, particularly from raw sensory observations such as images, is exceptionally challenging. Real-world events can be stochastic and unpredictable, and the high dimensionality and complexity of natural images requires the predictive model to build an intricate understanding of the natural world. Many existing methods tackle this problem by making simplifying assumptions about the environment. One common assumption is that the outcome is deterministic and there is only one plausible future. This can lead to low-quality predictions in real-world settings with stochastic dynamics. In this paper, we develop a stochastic variational video prediction (SV2P) method that predicts a different possible future for each sample of its latent variables. To the best of our knowledge, our model is the first to provide effective stochastic multi-frame prediction for real-world video. We demonstrate the capability of the proposed method in predicting detailed future frames of videos on multiple real-world datasets, both action-free and action-conditioned. We find that our proposed method produces substantially improved video predictions when compared to the same model without stochasticity, and to other stochastic video prediction methods. Our SV2P implementation will be open sourced upon publication. 

Title: Scene Completeness-Aware Lidar Depth Completion for Driving Scenario
Abstract:  In this paper we propose Scene Completeness-Aware Depth Completion (SADC) to complete raw lidar scans into dense depth maps with fine whole scene structures. Recent sparse depth completion for lidar only focuses on the lower scenes and produce irregular estimations on the upper because existing datasets such as KITTI do not provide groundtruth for upper areas. These areas are considered less important because they are usually sky or trees and of less scene understanding interest. However, we argue that in several driving scenarios such as large trucks or cars with loads, objects could extend to upper parts of scenes, and thus depth maps with structured upper scene estimation are important for RGBD algorithms. SADC leverages stereo cameras, which have better scene completeness, and lidars, which are more precise, to perform sparse depth completion. To our knowledge, we are the first to focus on scene completeness of sparse depth completion. We validate our SADC on both depth estimate precision and scene-completeness on KITTI. Moreover, SADC only adds small extra computational cost upon base methods of stereo matching and lidar completion in terms of runtime and model size. 

Title: IKEA Furniture Assembly Environment for Long-Horizon Complex Manipulation Tasks
Abstract:  The IKEA Furniture Assembly Environment is one of the first benchmarks for testing and accelerating the automation of complex manipulation tasks. The environment is designed to advance reinforcement learning from simple toy tasks to complex tasks requiring both long-term planning and sophisticated low-level control. Our environment supports over 80 different furniture models, Sawyer and Baxter robot simulation, and domain randomization. The IKEA Furniture Assembly Environment is a testbed for methods aiming to solve complex manipulation tasks. The environment is publicly available at https://clvrai.com/furniture 

Title: Suction Grasp Region Prediction using Self-supervised Learning for Object Picking in Dense Clutter
Abstract:  This paper focuses on robotic picking tasks in cluttered scenario. Because of the diversity of poses, types of stack and complicated background in bin picking situation, it is much difficult to recognize and estimate their pose before grasping them. Here, this paper combines Resnet with U-net structure, a special framework of Convolution Neural Networks (CNN), to predict picking region without recognition and pose estimation. And it makes robotic picking system learn picking skills from scratch. At the same time, we train the network end to end with online samples. In the end of this paper, several experiments are conducted to demonstrate the performance of our methods. 

Title: Factorized Machine Self-Confidence for Decision-Making Agents
Abstract:  Algorithmic assurances from advanced autonomous systems assist human users in understanding, trusting, and using such systems appropriately. Designing these systems with the capacity of assessing their own capabilities is one approach to creating an algorithmic assurance. The idea of `machine self-confidence' is introduced for autonomous systems. Using a factorization based framework for self-confidence assessment, one component of self-confidence, called `solver-quality', is discussed in the context of Markov decision processes for autonomous systems. Markov decision processes underlie much of the theory of reinforcement learning, and are commonly used for planning and decision making under uncertainty in robotics and autonomous systems. A `solver quality' metric is formally defined in the context of decision making algorithms based on Markov decision processes. A method for assessing solver quality is then derived, drawing inspiration from empirical hardness models. Finally, numerical experiments for an unmanned autonomous vehicle navigation problem under different solver, parameter, and environment conditions indicate that the self-confidence metric exhibits the desired properties. Discussion of results, and avenues for future investigation are included. 

Title: Deep Learning a Grasp Function for Grasping under Gripper Pose Uncertainty
Abstract:  This paper presents a new method for parallel-jaw grasping of isolated objects from depth images, under large gripper pose uncertainty. Whilst most approaches aim to predict the single best grasp pose from an image, our method first predicts a score for every possible grasp pose, which we denote the grasp function. With this, it is possible to achieve grasping robust to the gripper's pose uncertainty, by smoothing the grasp function with the pose uncertainty function. Therefore, if the single best pose is adjacent to a region of poor grasp quality, that pose will no longer be chosen, and instead a pose will be chosen which is surrounded by a region of high grasp quality. To learn this function, we train a Convolutional Neural Network which takes as input a single depth image of an object, and outputs a score for each grasp pose across the image. Training data for this is generated by use of physics simulation and depth image simulation with 3D object meshes, to enable acquisition of sufficient data without requiring exhaustive real-world experiments. We evaluate with both synthetic and real experiments, and show that the learned grasp score is more robust to gripper pose uncertainty than when this uncertainty is not accounted for. 

Title: Real time Detection of Lane Markers in Urban Streets
Abstract:  We present a robust and real time approach to lane marker detection in urban streets. It is based on generating a top view of the road, filtering using selective oriented Gaussian filters, using RANSAC line fitting to give initial guesses to a new and fast RANSAC algorithm for fitting Bezier Splines, which is then followed by a post-processing step. Our algorithm can detect all lanes in still images of the street in various conditions, while operating at a rate of 50 Hz and achieving comparable results to previous techniques. 

Title: 3D Object Detection on Point Clouds using Local Ground-aware and Adaptive Representation of scenes' surface
Abstract:  A novel, adaptive ground-aware, and cost-effective 3D Object Detection pipeline is proposed. The ground surface representation introduced in this paper, in comparison to its uni-planar counterparts (methods that model the surface of a whole 3D scene using single plane), is far more accurate while being ~10x faster. The novelty of the ground representation lies both in the way in which the ground surface of the scene is represented in Lidar perception problems, as well as in the (cost-efficient) way in which it is computed. Furthermore, the proposed object detection pipeline builds on the traditional two-stage object detection models by incorporating the ability to dynamically reason the surface of the scene, ultimately achieving a new state-of-the-art 3D object detection performance among the two-stage Lidar Object Detection pipelines. 

Title: An Extensible Interactive Interface for Agent Design
Abstract:  In artificial intelligence, we often specify tasks through a reward function. While this works well in some settings, many tasks are hard to specify this way. In deep reinforcement learning, for example, directly specifying a reward as a function of a high-dimensional observation is challenging. Instead, we present an interface for specifying tasks interactively using demonstrations. Our approach defines a set of increasingly complex policies. The interface allows the user to switch between these policies at fixed intervals to generate demonstrations of novel, more complex, tasks. We train new policies based on these demonstrations and repeat the process. We present a case study of our approach in the Lunar Lander domain, and show that this simple approach can quickly learn a successful landing policy and outperforms an existing comparison-based deep RL method. 

Title: Unsupervised Object Discovery and Segmentation of RGBD-images
Abstract:  In this paper we introduce a system for unsupervised object discovery and segmentation of RGBD-images. The system models the sensor noise directly from data, allowing accurate segmentation without sensor specific hand tuning of measurement noise models making use of the recently introduced Statistical Inlier Estimation (SIE) method. Through a fully probabilistic formulation, the system is able to apply probabilistic inference, enabling reliable segmentation in previously challenging scenarios. In addition, we introduce new methods for filtering out false positives, significantly improving the signal to noise ratio. We show that the system significantly outperform state-of-the-art in on a challenging real-world dataset. 

Title: Visual-Thermal Landmarks and Inertial Fusion for Navigation in Degraded Visual Environments
Abstract:  With an ever-widening domain of aerial robotic applications, including many mission critical tasks such as disaster response operations, search and rescue missions and infrastructure inspections taking place in GPS-denied environments, the need for reliable autonomous operation of aerial robots has become crucial. Operating in GPS-denied areas aerial robots rely on a multitude of sensors to localize and navigate. Visible spectrum cameras are the most commonly used sensors due to their low cost and weight. However, in environments that are visually-degraded such as in conditions of poor illumination, low texture, or presence of obscurants including fog, smoke and dust, the reliability of visible light cameras deteriorates significantly. Nevertheless, maintaining reliable robot navigation in such conditions is essential. In contrast to visible light cameras, thermal cameras offer visibility in the infrared spectrum and can be used in a complementary manner with visible spectrum cameras for robot localization and navigation tasks, without paying the significant weight and power penalty typically associated with carrying other sensors. Exploiting this fact, in this work we present a multi-sensor fusion algorithm for reliable odometry estimation in GPS-denied and degraded visual environments. The proposed method utilizes information from both the visible and thermal spectra for landmark selection and prioritizes feature extraction from informative image regions based on a metric over spatial entropy. Furthermore, inertial sensing cues are integrated to improve the robustness of the odometry estimation process. To verify our solution, a set of challenging experiments were conducted inside a) an obscurant filed machine shop-like industrial environment, as well as b) a dark subterranean mine in the presence of heavy airborne dust. 

Title: Low-Cost Scene Modeling using a Density Function Improves Segmentation Performance
Abstract:  We propose a low cost and effective way to combine a free simulation software and free CAD models for modeling human-object interaction in order to improve human & object segmentation. It is intended for research scenarios related to safe human-robot collaboration (SHRC) and interaction (SHRI) in the industrial domain. The task of human and object modeling has been used for detecting activity, and for inferring and predicting actions, different from those works, we do human and object modeling in order to learn interactions in RGB-D data for improving segmentation. For this purpose, we define a novel density function to model a three dimensional (3D) scene in a virtual environment (VREP). This density function takes into account various possible configurations of human-object and object-object relationships and interactions governed by their affordances. Using this function, we synthesize a large, realistic and highly varied synthetic RGB-D dataset that we use for training. We train a random forest classifier, and the pixelwise predictions obtained is integrated as a unary term in a pairwise conditional random fields (CRF). Our evaluation shows that modeling these interactions improves segmentation performance by ~7\% in mean average precision and recall over state-of-the-art methods that ignore these interactions in real-world data. Our approach is computationally efficient, robust and can run real-time on consumer hardware. 

Title: MVLidarNet: Real-Time Multi-Class Scene Understanding for Autonomous Driving Using Multiple Views
Abstract:  Autonomous driving requires the inference of actionable information such as detecting and classifying objects, and determining the drivable space. To this end, we present Multi-View LidarNet (MVLidarNet), a two-stage deep neural network for multi-class object detection and drivable space segmentation using multiple views of a single LiDAR point cloud. The first stage processes the point cloud projected onto a perspective view in order to semantically segment the scene. The second stage then processes the point cloud (along with semantic labels from the first stage) projected onto a bird's eye view, to detect and classify objects. Both stages use an encoder-decoder architecture. We show that our multi-view, multi-stage, multi-class approach is able to detect and classify objects while simultaneously determining the drivable space using a single LiDAR scan as input, in challenging scenes with more than one hundred vehicles and pedestrians at a time. The system operates efficiently at 150 fps on an embedded GPU designed for a self-driving car, including a postprocessing step to maintain identities over time. We show results on both KITTI and a much larger internal dataset, thus demonstrating the method's ability to scale by an order of magnitude. 

Title: Guided Meta-Policy Search
Abstract:  Reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms have demonstrated promising results on complex tasks, yet often require impractical numbers of samples because they learn from scratch. Meta-RL aims to address this challenge by leveraging experience from previous tasks in order to more quickly solve new tasks. However, in practice, these algorithms generally also require large amounts of on-policy experience during the meta-training process, making them impractical for use in many problems. To this end, we propose to learn a reinforcement learning procedure through imitation of expert policies that solve previously-seen tasks. This involves a nested optimization, with RL in the inner loop and supervised imitation learning in the outer loop. Because the outer loop imitation learning can be done with off-policy data, we can achieve significant gains in meta-learning sample efficiency. In this paper, we show how this general idea can be used both for meta-reinforcement learning and for learning fast RL procedures from multi-task demonstration data. The former results in an approach that can leverage policies learned for previous tasks without significant amounts of on-policy data during meta-training, whereas the latter is particularly useful in cases where demonstrations are easy for a person to provide. Across a number of continuous control meta-RL problems, we demonstrate significant improvements in meta-RL sample efficiency in comparison to prior work as well as the ability to scale to domains with visual observations. 

Title: miniSAM: A Flexible Factor Graph Non-linear Least Squares Optimization Framework
Abstract:  Many problems in computer vision and robotics can be phrased as non-linear least squares optimization problems represented by factor graphs, for example, simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), structure from motion (SfM), motion planning, and control. We have developed an open-source C++/Python framework miniSAM, for solving such factor graph based least squares problems. Compared to most existing frameworks for least squares solvers, miniSAM has (1) full Python/NumPy API, which enables more agile development and easy binding with existing Python projects, and (2) a wide list of sparse linear solvers, including CUDA enabled sparse linear solvers. Our benchmarking results shows miniSAM offers comparable performances on various types of problems, with more flexible and smoother development experience. 

Title: Meta-Learning Priors for Efficient Online Bayesian Regression
Abstract:  Gaussian Process (GP) regression has seen widespread use in robotics due to its generality, simplicity of use, and the utility of Bayesian predictions. The predominant implementation of GP regression is a nonparameteric kernel-based approach, as it enables fitting of arbitrary nonlinear functions. However, this approach suffers from two main drawbacks: (1) it is computationally inefficient, as computation scales poorly with the number of samples; and (2) it can be data inefficient, as encoding prior knowledge that can aid the model through the choice of kernel and associated hyperparameters is often challenging and unintuitive. In this work, we propose ALPaCA, an algorithm for efficient Bayesian regression which addresses these issues. ALPaCA uses a dataset of sample functions to learn a domain-specific, finite-dimensional feature encoding, as well as a prior over the associated weights, such that Bayesian linear regression in this feature space yields accurate online predictions of the posterior predictive density. These features are neural networks, which are trained via a meta-learning (or "learning-to-learn") approach. ALPaCA extracts all prior information directly from the dataset, rather than restricting prior information to the choice of kernel hyperparameters. Furthermore, by operating in the weight space, it substantially reduces sample complexity. We investigate the performance of ALPaCA on two simple regression problems, two simulated robotic systems, and on a lane-change driving task performed by humans. We find our approach outperforms kernel-based GP regression, as well as state of the art meta-learning approaches, thereby providing a promising plug-in tool for many regression tasks in robotics where scalability and data-efficiency are important. 

Title: Just Go with the Flow: Self-Supervised Scene Flow Estimation
Abstract:  When interacting with highly dynamic environments, scene flow allows autonomous systems to reason about the non-rigid motion of multiple independent objects. This is of particular interest in the field of autonomous driving, in which many cars, people, bicycles, and other objects need to be accurately tracked. Current state-of-the-art methods require annotated scene flow data from autonomous driving scenes to train scene flow networks with supervised learning. As an alternative, we present a method of training scene flow that uses two self-supervised losses, based on nearest neighbors and cycle consistency. These self-supervised losses allow us to train our method on large unlabeled autonomous driving datasets; the resulting method matches current state-of-the-art supervised performance using no real world annotations and exceeds state-of-the-art performance when combining our self-supervised approach with supervised learning on a smaller labeled dataset. 

Title: Probabilistic 3D Multilabel Real-time Mapping for Multi-object Manipulation
Abstract:  Probabilistic 3D map has been applied to object segmentation with multiple camera viewpoints, however, conventional methods lack of real-time efficiency and functionality of multilabel object mapping. In this paper, we propose a method to generate three-dimensional map with multilabel occupancy in real-time. Extending our previous work in which only target label occupancy is mapped, we achieve multilabel object segmentation in a single looking around action. We evaluate our method by testing segmentation accuracy with 39 different objects, and applying it to a manipulation task of multiple objects in the experiments. Our mapping-based method outperforms the conventional projection-based method by 40 - 96\% relative (12.6 mean $IU_{3d}$), and robot successfully recognizes (86.9\%) and manipulates multiple objects (60.7\%) in an environment with heavy occlusions. 

Title: Recognition of Grasp Points for Clothes Manipulation under unconstrained Conditions
Abstract:  In this work a system for recognizing grasp points in RGB-D images is proposed. This system is intended to be used by a domestic robot when deploying clothes lying at a random position on a table. By taking into consideration that the grasp points are usually near key parts of clothing, such as the waist of pants or the neck of a shirt. The proposed system attempts to detect these key parts first, using a local multivariate contour that adapts its shape accordingly. Then, the proposed system applies the Vessel Enhancement filter to identify wrinkles in the clothes, allowing to compute a roughness index for the clothes. Finally, by mixing (i) the key part contours and (ii) the roughness information obtained by the vessel filter, the system is able to recognize grasp points for unfolding a piece of clothing. The recognition system is validated using realistic RGB-D images of different cloth types. 

Title: Search-based Test-Case Generation by Monitoring Responsibility Safety Rules
Abstract:  The safety of Automated Vehicles (AV) as Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) depends on the safety of their consisting modules (software and hardware) and their rigorous integration. Deep Learning is one of the dominant techniques used for perception, prediction, and decision making in AVs. The accuracy of predictions and decision-making is highly dependant on the tests used for training their underlying deep-learning. In this work, we propose a method for screening and classifying simulation-based driving test data to be used for training and testing controllers. Our method is based on monitoring and falsification techniques, which lead to a systematic automated procedure for generating and selecting qualified test data. We used Responsibility Sensitive Safety (RSS) rules as our qualifier specifications to filter out the random tests that do not satisfy the RSS assumptions. Therefore, the remaining tests cover driving scenarios that the controlled vehicle does not respond safely to its environment. Our framework is distributed with the publicly available S-TALIRO and Sim-ATAV tools. 

Title: Learning Neural Parsers with Deterministic Differentiable Imitation Learning
Abstract:  We explore the problem of learning to decompose spatial tasks into segments, as exemplified by the problem of a painting robot covering a large object. Inspired by the ability of classical decision tree algorithms to construct structured partitions of their input spaces, we formulate the problem of decomposing objects into segments as a parsing approach. We make the insight that the derivation of a parse-tree that decomposes the object into segments closely resembles a decision tree constructed by ID3, which can be done when the ground-truth available. We learn to imitate an expert parsing oracle, such that our neural parser can generalize to parse natural images without ground truth. We introduce a novel deterministic policy gradient update, DRAG (i.e., DeteRministically AGgrevate) in the form of a deterministic actor-critic variant of AggreVaTeD, to train our neural parser. From another perspective, our approach is a variant of the Deterministic Policy Gradient suitable for the imitation learning setting. The deterministic policy representation offered by training our neural parser with DRAG allows it to outperform state of the art imitation and reinforcement learning approaches. 

Title: Human-Machine Interface for Remote Training of Robot Tasks
Abstract:  Regardless of their industrial or research application, the streamlining of robot operations is limited by the proximity of experienced users to the actual hardware. Be it massive open online robotics courses, crowd-sourcing of robot task training, or remote research on massive robot farms for machine learning, the need to create an apt remote Human-Machine Interface is quite prevalent. The paper at hand proposes a novel solution to the programming/training of remote robots employing an intuitive and accurate user-interface which offers all the benefits of working with real robots without imposing delays and inefficiency. The system includes: a vision-based 3D hand detection and gesture recognition subsystem, a simulated digital twin of a robot as visual feedback, and the "remote" robot learning/executing trajectories using dynamic motion primitives. Our results indicate that the system is a promising solution to the problem of remote training of robot tasks. 

Title: Sample-efficient Cross-Entropy Method for Real-time Planning
Abstract:  Trajectory optimizers for model-based reinforcement learning, such as the Cross-Entropy Method (CEM), can yield compelling results even in high-dimensional control tasks and sparse-reward environments. However, their sampling inefficiency prevents them from being used for real-time planning and control. We propose an improved version of the CEM algorithm for fast planning, with novel additions including temporally-correlated actions and memory, requiring 2.7-22x less samples and yielding a performance increase of 1.2-10x in high-dimensional control problems. 

Title: Tracking Emerges by Colorizing Videos
Abstract:  We use large amounts of unlabeled video to learn models for visual tracking without manual human supervision. We leverage the natural temporal coherency of color to create a model that learns to colorize gray-scale videos by copying colors from a reference frame. Quantitative and qualitative experiments suggest that this task causes the model to automatically learn to track visual regions. Although the model is trained without any ground-truth labels, our method learns to track well enough to outperform the latest methods based on optical flow. Moreover, our results suggest that failures to track are correlated with failures to colorize, indicating that advancing video colorization may further improve self-supervised visual tracking. 

Title: FuseMODNet: Real-Time Camera and LiDAR based Moving Object Detection for robust low-light Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  Moving object detection is a critical task for autonomous vehicles. As dynamic objects represent higher collision risk than static ones, our own ego-trajectories have to be planned attending to the future states of the moving elements of the scene. Motion can be perceived using temporal information such as optical flow. Conventional optical flow computation is based on camera sensors only, which makes it prone to failure in conditions with low illumination. On the other hand, LiDAR sensors are independent of illumination, as they measure the time-of-flight of their own emitted lasers. In this work, we propose a robust and real-time CNN architecture for Moving Object Detection (MOD) under low-light conditions by capturing motion information from both camera and LiDAR sensors. We demonstrate the impact of our algorithm on KITTI dataset where we simulate a low-light environment creating a novel dataset "Dark KITTI". We obtain a 10.1% relative improvement on Dark-KITTI, and a 4.25% improvement on standard KITTI relative to our baselines. The proposed algorithm runs at 18 fps on a standard desktop GPU using $256\times1224$ resolution images. 

Title: Learning Active Spine Behaviors for Dynamic and Efficient Locomotion in Quadruped Robots
Abstract:  In this work, we provide a simulation framework to perform systematic studies on the effects of spinal joint compliance and actuation on bounding performance of a 16-DOF quadruped spined robot Stoch 2. Fast quadrupedal locomotion with active spine is an extremely hard problem, and involves a complex coordination between the various degrees of freedom. Therefore, past attempts at addressing this problem have not seen much success. Deep-Reinforcement Learning seems to be a promising approach, after its recent success in a variety of robot platforms, and the goal of this paper is to use this approach to realize the aforementioned behaviors. With this learning framework, the robot reached a bounding speed of 2.1 m/s with a maximum Froude number of 2. Simulation results also show that use of active spine, indeed, increased the stride length, improved the cost of transport, and also reduced the natural frequency to more realistic values. 

Title: Bootstrapping Robotic Ecological Perception from a Limited Set of Hypotheses Through Interactive Perception
Abstract:  To solve its task, a robot needs to have the ability to interpret its perceptions. In vision, this interpretation is particularly difficult and relies on the understanding of the structure of the scene, at least to the extent of its task and sensorimotor abilities. A robot with the ability to build and adapt this interpretation process according to its own tasks and capabilities would push away the limits of what robots can achieve in a non controlled environment. A solution is to provide the robot with processes to build such representations that are not specific to an environment or a situation. A lot of works focus on objects segmentation, recognition and manipulation. Defining an object solely on the basis of its visual appearance is challenging given the wide range of possible objects and environments. Therefore, current works make simplifying assumptions about the structure of a scene. Such assumptions reduce the adaptivity of the object extraction process to the environments in which the assumption holds. To limit such assumptions, we introduce an exploration method aimed at identifying moveable elements in a scene without considering the concept of object. By using the interactive perception framework, we aim at bootstrapping the acquisition process of a representation of the environment with a minimum of context specific assumptions. The robotic system builds a perceptual map called relevance map which indicates the moveable parts of the current scene. A classifier is trained online to predict the category of each region (moveable or non-moveable). It is also used to select a region with which to interact, with the goal of minimizing the uncertainty of the classification. A specific classifier is introduced to fit these needs: the collaborative mixture models classifier. The method is tested on a set of scenarios of increasing complexity, using both simulations and a PR2 robot. 

Title: The Regretful Agent: Heuristic-Aided Navigation through Progress Estimation
Abstract:  As deep learning continues to make progress for challenging perception tasks, there is increased interest in combining vision, language, and decision-making. Specifically, the Vision and Language Navigation (VLN) task involves navigating to a goal purely from language instructions and visual information without explicit knowledge of the goal. Recent successful approaches have made in-roads in achieving good success rates for this task but rely on beam search, which thoroughly explores a large number of trajectories and is unrealistic for applications such as robotics. In this paper, inspired by the intuition of viewing the problem as search on a navigation graph, we propose to use a progress monitor developed in prior work as a learnable heuristic for search. We then propose two modules incorporated into an end-to-end architecture: 1) A learned mechanism to perform backtracking, which decides whether to continue moving forward or roll back to a previous state (Regret Module) and 2) A mechanism to help the agent decide which direction to go next by showing directions that are visited and their associated progress estimate (Progress Marker). Combined, the proposed approach significantly outperforms current state-of-the-art methods using greedy action selection, with 5% absolute improvement on the test server in success rates, and more importantly 8% on success rates normalized by the path length. Our code is available at https://github.com/chihyaoma/regretful-agent . 

Title: The Earth ain't Flat: Monocular Reconstruction of Vehicles on Steep and Graded Roads from a Moving Camera
Abstract:  Accurate localization of other traffic participants is a vital task in autonomous driving systems. State-of-the-art systems employ a combination of sensing modalities such as RGB cameras and LiDARs for localizing traffic participants, but most such demonstrations have been confined to plain roads. We demonstrate, to the best of our knowledge, the first results for monocular object localization and shape estimation on surfaces that do not share the same plane with the moving monocular camera. We approximate road surfaces by local planar patches and use semantic cues from vehicles in the scene to initialize a local bundle-adjustment like procedure that simultaneously estimates the pose and shape of the vehicles, and the orientation of the local ground plane on which the vehicle stands as well. We evaluate the proposed approach on the KITTI and SYNTHIA-SF benchmarks, for a variety of road plane configurations. The proposed approach significantly improves the state-of-the-art for monocular object localization on arbitrarily-shaped roads. 

Title: Exploiting Multi-Layer Grid Maps for Surround-View Semantic Segmentation of Sparse LiDAR Data
Abstract:  In this paper, we consider the transformation of laser range measurements into a top-view grid map representation to approach the task of LiDAR-only semantic segmentation. Since the recent publication of the SemanticKITTI data set, researchers are now able to study semantic segmentation of urban LiDAR sequences based on a reasonable amount of data. While other approaches propose to directly learn on the 3D point clouds, we are exploiting a grid map framework to extract relevant information and represent them by using multi-layer grid maps. This representation allows us to use well-studied deep learning architectures from the image domain to predict a dense semantic grid map using only the sparse input data of a single LiDAR scan. We compare single-layer and multi-layer approaches and demonstrate the benefit of a multi-layer grid map input. Since the grid map representation allows us to predict a dense, 360{\deg} semantic environment representation, we further develop a method to combine the semantic information from multiple scans and create dense ground truth grids. This method allows us to evaluate and compare the performance of our models not only based on grid cells with a detection, but on the full visible measurement range. 

Title: Real-Time, Highly Accurate Robotic Grasp Detection using Fully Convolutional Neural Network with Rotation Ensemble Module
Abstract:  Rotation invariance has been an important topic in computer vision tasks. Ideally, robot grasp detection should be rotation-invariant. However, rotation-invariance in robotic grasp detection has been only recently studied by using rotation anchor box that are often time-consuming and unreliable for multiple objects. In this paper, we propose a rotation ensemble module (REM) for robotic grasp detection using convolutions that rotates network weights. Our proposed REM was able to outperform current state-of-the-art methods by achieving up to 99.2% (image-wise), 98.6% (object-wise) accuracies on the Cornell dataset with real-time computation (50 frames per second). Our proposed method was also able to yield reliable grasps for multiple objects and up to 93.8% success rate for the real-time robotic grasping task with a 4-axis robot arm for small novel objects that was significantly higher than the baseline methods by 11-56%. 

Title: Predicting the Next Best View for 3D Mesh Refinement
Abstract:  3D reconstruction is a core task in many applications such as robot navigation or sites inspections. Finding the best poses to capture part of the scene is one of the most challenging topic that goes under the name of Next Best View. Recently, many volumetric methods have been proposed; they choose the Next Best View by reasoning over a 3D voxelized space and by finding which pose minimizes the uncertainty decoded into the voxels. Such methods are effective, but they do not scale well since the underlaying representation requires a huge amount of memory. In this paper we propose a novel mesh-based approach which focuses on the worst reconstructed region of the environment mesh. We define a photo-consistent index to evaluate the 3D mesh accuracy, and an energy function over the worst regions of the mesh which takes into account the mutual parallax with respect to the previous cameras, the angle of incidence of the viewing ray to the surface and the visibility of the region. We test our approach over a well known dataset and achieve state-of-the-art results. 

Title: Enhancing Underwater Imagery using Generative Adversarial Networks
Abstract:  Autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) rely on a variety of sensors - acoustic, inertial and visual - for intelligent decision making. Due to its non-intrusive, passive nature, and high information content, vision is an attractive sensing modality, particularly at shallower depths. However, factors such as light refraction and absorption, suspended particles in the water, and color distortion affect the quality of visual data, resulting in noisy and distorted images. AUVs that rely on visual sensing thus face difficult challenges, and consequently exhibit poor performance on vision-driven tasks. This paper proposes a method to improve the quality of visual underwater scenes using Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), with the goal of improving input to vision-driven behaviors further down the autonomy pipeline. Furthermore, we show how recently proposed methods are able to generate a dataset for the purpose of such underwater image restoration. For any visually-guided underwater robots, this improvement can result in increased safety and reliability through robust visual perception. To that effect, we present quantitative and qualitative data which demonstrates that images corrected through the proposed approach generate more visually appealing images, and also provide increased accuracy for a diver tracking algorithm. 

Title: Pose-Assisted Multi-Camera Collaboration for Active Object Tracking
Abstract:  Active Object Tracking (AOT) is crucial to many visionbased applications, e.g., mobile robot, intelligent surveillance. However, there are a number of challenges when deploying active tracking in complex scenarios, e.g., target is frequently occluded by obstacles. In this paper, we extend the single-camera AOT to a multi-camera setting, where cameras tracking a target in a collaborative fashion. To achieve effective collaboration among cameras, we propose a novel Pose-Assisted Multi-Camera Collaboration System, which enables a camera to cooperate with the others by sharing camera poses for active object tracking. In the system, each camera is equipped with two controllers and a switcher: The vision-based controller tracks targets based on observed images. The pose-based controller moves the camera in accordance to the poses of the other cameras. At each step, the switcher decides which action to take from the two controllers according to the visibility of the target. The experimental results demonstrate that our system outperforms all the baselines and is capable of generalizing to unseen environments. The code and demo videos are available on our website https://sites.google.com/view/pose-assistedcollaboration. 

Title: Real-time 3D Reconstruction on Construction Site using Visual SLAM and UAV
Abstract:  3D reconstruction can be used as a platform to monitor the performance of activities on construction site, such as construction progress monitoring, structure inspection and post-disaster rescue. Comparing to other sensors, RGB image has the advantages of low-cost, texture rich and easy to implement that has been used as the primary method for 3D reconstruction in construction industry. However, the image-based 3D reconstruction always requires extended time to acquire and/or to process the image data, which limits its application on time critical projects. Recent progress in Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) make it possible to reconstruct a 3D map of construction site in real-time. Integrated with Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV), the obstacles areas that are inaccessible for the ground equipment can also be sensed. Despite these advantages of visual SLAM and UAV, until now, such technique has not been fully investigated on construction site. Therefore, the objective of this research is to present a pilot study of using visual SLAM and UAV for real-time construction site reconstruction. The system architecture and the experimental setup are introduced, and the preliminary results and the potential applications using Visual SLAM and UAV on construction site are discussed. 

Title: Multimodal Trajectory Predictions for Autonomous Driving using Deep Convolutional Networks
Abstract:  Autonomous driving presents one of the largest problems that the robotics and artificial intelligence communities are facing at the moment, both in terms of difficulty and potential societal impact. Self-driving vehicles (SDVs) are expected to prevent road accidents and save millions of lives while improving the livelihood and life quality of many more. However, despite large interest and a number of industry players working in the autonomous domain, there still remains more to be done in order to develop a system capable of operating at a level comparable to best human drivers. One reason for this is high uncertainty of traffic behavior and large number of situations that an SDV may encounter on the roads, making it very difficult to create a fully generalizable system. To ensure safe and efficient operations, an autonomous vehicle is required to account for this uncertainty and to anticipate a multitude of possible behaviors of traffic actors in its surrounding. We address this critical problem and present a method to predict multiple possible trajectories of actors while also estimating their probabilities. The method encodes each actor's surrounding context into a raster image, used as input by deep convolutional networks to automatically derive relevant features for the task. Following extensive offline evaluation and comparison to state-of-the-art baselines, the method was successfully tested on SDVs in closed-course tests. 

Title: Key Ingredients of Self-Driving Cars
Abstract:  Over the past decade, many research articles have been published in the area of autonomous driving. However, most of them focus only on a specific technological area, such as visual environment perception, vehicle control, etc. Furthermore, due to fast advances in the self-driving car technology, such articles become obsolete very fast. In this paper, we give a brief but comprehensive overview on key ingredients of autonomous cars (ACs), including driving automation levels, AC sensors, AC software, open source datasets, industry leaders, AC applications and existing challenges. 

Title: Ensemble of Hankel Matrices for Face Emotion Recognition
Abstract:  In this paper, a face emotion is considered as the result of the composition of multiple concurrent signals, each corresponding to the movements of a specific facial muscle. These concurrent signals are represented by means of a set of multi-scale appearance features that might be correlated with one or more concurrent signals. The extraction of these appearance features from a sequence of face images yields to a set of time series. This paper proposes to use the dynamics regulating each appearance feature time series to recognize among different face emotions. To this purpose, an ensemble of Hankel matrices corresponding to the extracted time series is used for emotion classification within a framework that combines nearest neighbor and a majority vote schema. Experimental results on a public available dataset shows that the adopted representation is promising and yields state-of-the-art accuracy in emotion classification. 

Title: Towards Vision-Based Deep Reinforcement Learning for Robotic Motion Control
Abstract:  This paper introduces a machine learning based system for controlling a robotic manipulator with visual perception only. The capability to autonomously learn robot controllers solely from raw-pixel images and without any prior knowledge of configuration is shown for the first time. We build upon the success of recent deep reinforcement learning and develop a system for learning target reaching with a three-joint robot manipulator using external visual observation. A Deep Q Network (DQN) was demonstrated to perform target reaching after training in simulation. Transferring the network to real hardware and real observation in a naive approach failed, but experiments show that the network works when replacing camera images with synthetic images. 

Title: Model Learning for Look-ahead Exploration in Continuous Control
Abstract:  We propose an exploration method that incorporates look-ahead search over basic learnt skills and their dynamics, and use it for reinforcement learning (RL) of manipulation policies . Our skills are multi-goal policies learned in isolation in simpler environments using existing multigoal RL formulations, analogous to options or macroactions. Coarse skill dynamics, i.e., the state transition caused by a (complete) skill execution, are learnt and are unrolled forward during lookahead search. Policy search benefits from temporal abstraction during exploration, though itself operates over low-level primitive actions, and thus the resulting policies does not suffer from suboptimality and inflexibility caused by coarse skill chaining. We show that the proposed exploration strategy results in effective learning of complex manipulation policies faster than current state-of-the-art RL methods, and converges to better policies than methods that use options or parametrized skills as building blocks of the policy itself, as opposed to guiding exploration. We show that the proposed exploration strategy results in effective learning of complex manipulation policies faster than current state-of-the-art RL methods, and converges to better policies than methods that use options or parameterized skills as building blocks of the policy itself, as opposed to guiding exploration. 

Title: SAMBA: Safe Model-Based & Active Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  In this paper, we propose SAMBA, a novel framework for safe reinforcement learning that combines aspects from probabilistic modelling, information theory, and statistics. Our method builds upon PILCO to enable active exploration using novel(semi-)metrics for out-of-sample Gaussian process evaluation optimised through a multi-objective problem that supports conditional-value-at-risk constraints. We evaluate our algorithm on a variety of safe dynamical system benchmarks involving both low and high-dimensional state representations. Our results show orders of magnitude reductions in samples and violations compared to state-of-the-art methods. Lastly, we provide intuition as to the effectiveness of the framework by a detailed analysis of our active metrics and safety constraints. 

Title: Visual-Inertial Object Detection and Mapping
Abstract:  We present a method to populate an unknown environment with models of previously seen objects, placed in a Euclidean reference frame that is inferred causally and on-line using monocular video along with inertial sensors. The system we implement returns a sparse point cloud for the regions of the scene that are visible but not recognized as a previously seen object, and a detailed object model and its pose in the Euclidean frame otherwise. The system includes bottom-up and top-down components, whereby deep networks trained for detection provide likelihood scores for object hypotheses provided by a nonlinear filter, whose state serves as memory. Additional networks provide likelihood scores for edges, which complements detection networks trained to be invariant to small deformations. We test our algorithm on existing datasets, and also introduce the VISMA dataset, that provides ground truth pose, point-cloud map, and object models, along with time-stamped inertial measurements. 

Title: That and There: Judging the Intent of Pointing Actions with Robotic Arms
Abstract:  Collaborative robotics requires effective communication between a robot and a human partner. This work proposes a set of interpretive principles for how a robotic arm can use pointing actions to communicate task information to people by extending existing models from the related literature. These principles are evaluated through studies where English-speaking human subjects view animations of simulated robots instructing pick-and-place tasks. The evaluation distinguishes two classes of pointing actions that arise in pick-and-place tasks: referential pointing (identifying objects) and locating pointing (identifying locations). The study indicates that human subjects show greater flexibility in interpreting the intent of referential pointing compared to locating pointing, which needs to be more deliberate. The results also demonstrate the effects of variation in the environment and task context on the interpretation of pointing. Our corpus, experiments and design principles advance models of context, common sense reasoning and communication in embodied communication. 

Title: Data-Driven Vehicle Trajectory Forecasting
Abstract:  An active area of research is to increase the safety of self-driving vehicles. Although safety cannot be guarenteed completely, the capability of a vehicle to predict the future trajectories of its surrounding vehicles could help ensure this notion of safety to a greater deal. We cast the trajectory forecast problem in a multi-time step forecasting problem and develop a Convolutional Neural Network based approach to learn from trajectory sequences generated from completely raw dataset in real-time. Results show improvement over baselines. 

Title: Hierarchical Salient Object Detection for Assisted Grasping
Abstract:  Visual scene decomposition into semantic entities is one of the major challenges when creating a reliable object grasping system. Recently, we introduced a bottom-up hierarchical clustering approach which is able to segment objects and parts in a scene. In this paper, we introduce a transform from such a segmentation into a corresponding, hierarchical saliency function. In comprehensive experiments we demonstrate its ability to detect salient objects in a scene. Furthermore, this hierarchical saliency defines a most salient corresponding region (scale) for every point in an image. Based on this, an easy-to-use pick and place manipulation system was developed and tested exemplarily. 

Title: Driving Datasets Literature Review
Abstract:  This report is a survey of the different autonomous driving datasets which have been published up to date. The first section introduces the many sensor types used in autonomous driving datasets. The second section investigates the calibration and synchronization procedure required to generate accurate data. The third section describes the diverse driving tasks explored by the datasets. Finally, the fourth section provides comprehensive lists of datasets, mainly in the form of tables. 

Title: Deep Learning with Convolutional Neural Network for Objective Skill Evaluation in Robot-assisted Surgery
Abstract:  With the advent of robot-assisted surgery, the role of data-driven approaches to integrate statistics and machine learning is growing rapidly with prominent interests in objective surgical skill assessment. However, most existing work requires translating robot motion kinematics into intermediate features or gesture segments that are expensive to extract, lack efficiency, and require significant domain-specific knowledge. We propose an analytical deep learning framework for skill assessment in surgical training. A deep convolutional neural network is implemented to map multivariate time series data of the motion kinematics to individual skill levels. We perform experiments on the public minimally invasive surgical robotic dataset, JHU-ISI Gesture and Skill Assessment Working Set (JIGSAWS). Our proposed learning model achieved a competitive accuracy of 92.5%, 95.4%, and 91.3%, in the standard training tasks: Suturing, Needle-passing, and Knot-tying, respectively. Without the need of engineered features or carefully-tuned gesture segmentation, our model can successfully decode skill information from raw motion profiles via end-to-end learning. Meanwhile, the proposed model is able to reliably interpret skills within 1-3 second window, without needing an observation of entire training trial. This study highlights the potentials of deep architectures for an proficient online skill assessment in modern surgical training. 

Title: Correlation Flow: Robust Optical Flow Using Kernel Cross-Correlators
Abstract:  Robust velocity and position estimation is crucial for autonomous robot navigation. The optical flow based methods for autonomous navigation have been receiving increasing attentions in tandem with the development of micro unmanned aerial vehicles. This paper proposes a kernel cross-correlator (KCC) based algorithm to determine optical flow using a monocular camera, which is named as correlation flow (CF). Correlation flow is able to provide reliable and accurate velocity estimation and is robust to motion blur. In addition, it can also estimate the altitude velocity and yaw rate, which are not available by traditional methods. Autonomous flight tests on a quadcopter show that correlation flow can provide robust trajectory estimation with very low processing power. The source codes are released based on the ROS framework. 

Title: Robust Place Categorization with Deep Domain Generalization
Abstract:  Traditional place categorization approaches in robot vision assume that training and test images have similar visual appearance. Therefore, any seasonal, illumination and environmental changes typically lead to severe degradation in performance. To cope with this problem, recent works have proposed to adopt domain adaptation techniques. While effective, these methods assume that some prior information about the scenario where the robot will operate is available at training time. Unfortunately, in many cases this assumption does not hold, as we often do not know where a robot will be deployed. To overcome this issue, in this paper we present an approach which aims at learning classification models able to generalize to unseen scenarios. Specifically, we propose a novel deep learning framework for domain generalization. Our method develops from the intuition that, given a set of different classification models associated to known domains (e.g. corresponding to multiple environments, robots), the best model for a new sample in the novel domain can be computed directly at test time by optimally combining the known models. To implement our idea, we exploit recent advances in deep domain adaptation and design a Convolutional Neural Network architecture with novel layers performing a weighted version of Batch Normalization. Our experiments, conducted on three common datasets for robot place categorization, confirm the validity of our contribution. 

Title: DiPE: Deeper into Photometric Errors for Unsupervised Learning of Depth and Ego-motion from Monocular Videos
Abstract:  Unsupervised learning of depth and ego-motion from unlabelled monocular videos has recently drawn attention as it has notable advantages than the supervised ones. It uses the photometric errors between the target view and the synthesized views from its adjacent source views as the loss. Although significant progress has been made, the learning still suffers from occlusion and scene dynamics. This paper shows that carefully manipulating photometric errors can tackle these difficulties better. The primary improvement is achieved by masking out the invisible or nonstationary pixels in the photometric error map using a statistical technique. With this outlier masking approach, the depth of objects that move in the opposite direction to the camera can be estimated more accurately. According to our best knowledge, such objects have not been seriously considered in the previous work, even though they pose a higher risk in applications like autonomous driving. We also propose an efficient weighted multi-scale scheme to reduce the artifacts in the predicted depth maps. Extensive experiments on the KITTI dataset show the effectiveness of the proposed approaches. The overall system achieves state-of-the-art performance on both depth and ego-motion estimation. 

Title: AffordanceNet: An End-to-End Deep Learning Approach for Object Affordance Detection
Abstract:  We propose AffordanceNet, a new deep learning approach to simultaneously detect multiple objects and their affordances from RGB images. Our AffordanceNet has two branches: an object detection branch to localize and classify the object, and an affordance detection branch to assign each pixel in the object to its most probable affordance label. The proposed framework employs three key components for effectively handling the multiclass problem in the affordance mask: a sequence of deconvolutional layers, a robust resizing strategy, and a multi-task loss function. The experimental results on the public datasets show that our AffordanceNet outperforms recent state-of-the-art methods by a fair margin, while its end-to-end architecture allows the inference at the speed of 150ms per image. This makes our AffordanceNet well suitable for real-time robotic applications. Furthermore, we demonstrate the effectiveness of AffordanceNet in different testing environments and in real robotic applications. The source code is available at https://github.com/nqanh/affordance-net 

Title: Residual Reinforcement Learning for Robot Control
Abstract:  Conventional feedback control methods can solve various types of robot control problems very efficiently by capturing the structure with explicit models, such as rigid body equations of motion. However, many control problems in modern manufacturing deal with contacts and friction, which are difficult to capture with first-order physical modeling. Hence, applying control design methodologies to these kinds of problems often results in brittle and inaccurate controllers, which have to be manually tuned for deployment. Reinforcement learning (RL) methods have been demonstrated to be capable of learning continuous robot controllers from interactions with the environment, even for problems that include friction and contacts. In this paper, we study how we can solve difficult control problems in the real world by decomposing them into a part that is solved efficiently by conventional feedback control methods, and the residual which is solved with RL. The final control policy is a superposition of both control signals. We demonstrate our approach by training an agent to successfully perform a real-world block assembly task involving contacts and unstable objects. 

Title: Car Detection using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles: Comparison between Faster R-CNN and YOLOv3
Abstract:  Unmanned Aerial Vehicles are increasingly being used in surveillance and traffic monitoring thanks to their high mobility and ability to cover areas at different altitudes and locations. One of the major challenges is to use aerial images to accurately detect cars and count them in real-time for traffic monitoring purposes. Several deep learning techniques were recently proposed based on convolution neural network (CNN) for real-time classification and recognition in computer vision. However, their performance depends on the scenarios where they are used. In this paper, we investigate the performance of two state-of-the-art CNN algorithms, namely Faster R-CNN and YOLOv3, in the context of car detection from aerial images. We trained and tested these two models on a large car dataset taken from UAVs. We demonstrated in this paper that YOLOv3 outperforms Faster R-CNN in sensitivity and processing time, although they are comparable in the precision metric. 

Title: Control-Oriented Learning on the Fly
Abstract:  This paper focuses on developing a strategy for control of systems whose dynamics are almost entirely unknown. This situation arises naturally in a scenario where a system undergoes a critical failure. In that case, it is imperative to retain the ability to satisfy basic control objectives in order to avert an imminent catastrophe. A prime example of such an objective is the reach-avoid problem, where a system needs to move to a certain state in a constrained state space. To deal with limitations on our knowledge of system dynamics, we develop a theory of myopic control. The primary goal of myopic control is to, at any given time, optimize the current direction of the system trajectory, given solely the information obtained about the system until that time. We propose an algorithm that uses small perturbations in the control effort to learn local dynamics while simultaneously ensuring that the system moves in a direction that appears to be nearly optimal, and provide hard bounds for its suboptimality. We additionally verify the usefulness of the algorithm on a simulation of a damaged aircraft seeking to avoid a crash, as well as on an example of a Van der Pol oscillator. 

Title: PT-ResNet: Perspective Transformation-Based Residual Network for Semantic Road Image Segmentation
Abstract:  Semantic road region segmentation is a high-level task, which paves the way towards road scene understanding. This paper presents a residual network trained for semantic road segmentation. Firstly, we represent the projections of road disparities in the v-disparity map as a linear model, which can be estimated by optimizing the v-disparity map using dynamic programming. This linear model is then utilized to reduce the redundant information in the left and right road images. The right image is also transformed into the left perspective view, which greatly enhances the road surface similarity between the two images. Finally, the processed stereo images and their disparity maps are concatenated to create a set of 3D images, which are then utilized to train our neural network. The experimental results illustrate that our network achieves a maximum F1-measure of approximately 91.19% when analyzing the images from the KITTI road dataset. 

Title: Continuous Deep Q-Learning with Model-based Acceleration
Abstract:  Model-free reinforcement learning has been successfully applied to a range of challenging problems, and has recently been extended to handle large neural network policies and value functions. However, the sample complexity of model-free algorithms, particularly when using high-dimensional function approximators, tends to limit their applicability to physical systems. In this paper, we explore algorithms and representations to reduce the sample complexity of deep reinforcement learning for continuous control tasks. We propose two complementary techniques for improving the efficiency of such algorithms. First, we derive a continuous variant of the Q-learning algorithm, which we call normalized adantage functions (NAF), as an alternative to the more commonly used policy gradient and actor-critic methods. NAF representation allows us to apply Q-learning with experience replay to continuous tasks, and substantially improves performance on a set of simulated robotic control tasks. To further improve the efficiency of our approach, we explore the use of learned models for accelerating model-free reinforcement learning. We show that iteratively refitted local linear models are especially effective for this, and demonstrate substantially faster learning on domains where such models are applicable. 

Title: SafeDrive: A Robust Lane Tracking System for Autonomous and Assisted Driving Under Limited Visibility
Abstract:  We present an approach towards robust lane tracking for assisted and autonomous driving, particularly under poor visibility. Autonomous detection of lane markers improves road safety, and purely visual tracking is desirable for widespread vehicle compatibility and reducing sensor intrusion, cost, and energy consumption. However, visual approaches are often ineffective because of a number of factors, including but not limited to occlusion, poor weather conditions, and paint wear-off. Our method, named SafeDrive, attempts to improve visual lane detection approaches in drastically degraded visual conditions without relying on additional active sensors. In scenarios where visual lane detection algorithms are unable to detect lane markers, the proposed approach uses location information of the vehicle to locate and access alternate imagery of the road and attempts detection on this secondary image. Subsequently, by using a combination of feature-based and pixel-based alignment, an estimated location of the lane marker is found in the current scene. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our system on actual driving data from locations in the United States with Google Street View as the source of alternate imagery. 

Title: A General Framework of Learning Multi-Vehicle Interaction Patterns from Videos
Abstract:  Semantic learning and understanding of multi-vehicle interaction patterns in a cluttered driving environment are essential but challenging for autonomous vehicles to make proper decisions. This paper presents a general framework to gain insights into intricate multi-vehicle interaction patterns from bird's-eye view traffic videos. We adopt a Gaussian velocity field to describe the time-varying multi-vehicle interaction behaviors and then use deep autoencoders to learn associated latent representations for each temporal frame. Then, we utilize a hidden semi-Markov model with a hierarchical Dirichlet process as a prior to segment these sequential representations into granular components, also called traffic primitives, corresponding to interaction patterns. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed framework can extract traffic primitives from videos, thus providing a semantic way to analyze multi-vehicle interaction patterns, even for cluttered driving scenarios that are far messier than human beings can cope with. 

Title: A Large Scale Event-based Detection Dataset for Automotive
Abstract:  We introduce the first very large detection dataset for event cameras. The dataset is composed of more than 39 hours of automotive recordings acquired with a 304x240 ATIS sensor. It contains open roads and very diverse driving scenarios, ranging from urban, highway, suburbs and countryside scenes, as well as different weather and illumination conditions. Manual bounding box annotations of cars and pedestrians contained in the recordings are also provided at a frequency between 1 and 4Hz, yielding more than 255,000 labels in total. We believe that the availability of a labeled dataset of this size will contribute to major advances in event-based vision tasks such as object detection and classification. We also expect benefits in other tasks such as optical flow, structure from motion and tracking, where for example, the large amount of data can be leveraged by self-supervised learning methods. 

Title: Unsupervised Learning of Audio Perception for Robotics Applications: Learning to Project Data to T-SNE/UMAP space
Abstract:  Audio perception is a key to solving a variety of problems ranging from acoustic scene analysis, music meta-data extraction, recommendation, synthesis and analysis. It can potentially also augment computers in doing tasks that humans do effortlessly in day-to-day activities. This paper builds upon key ideas to build perception of touch sounds without access to any ground-truth data. We show how we can leverage ideas from classical signal processing to get large amounts of data of any sound of interest with a high precision. These sounds are then used, along with the images to map the sounds to a clustered space of the latent representation of these images. This approach, not only allows us to learn semantic representation of the possible sounds of interest, but also allows association of different modalities to the learned distinctions. The model trained to map sounds to this clustered representation, gives reasonable performance as opposed to expensive methods collecting a lot of human annotated data. Such approaches can be used to build a state of art perceptual model for any sound of interest described using a few signal processing features. Daisy chaining high precision sound event detectors using signal processing combined with neural architectures and high dimensional clustering of unlabelled data is a vastly powerful idea, and can be explored in a variety of ways in future. 

Title: From virtual demonstration to real-world manipulation using LSTM and MDN
Abstract:  Robots assisting the disabled or elderly must perform complex manipulation tasks and must adapt to the home environment and preferences of their user. Learning from demonstration is a promising choice, that would allow the non-technical user to teach the robot different tasks. However, collecting demonstrations in the home environment of a disabled user is time consuming, disruptive to the comfort of the user, and presents safety challenges. It would be desirable to perform the demonstrations in a virtual environment. In this paper we describe a solution to the challenging problem of behavior transfer from virtual demonstration to a physical robot. The virtual demonstrations are used to train a deep neural network based controller, which is using a Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network to generate trajectories. The training process uses a Mixture Density Network (MDN) to calculate an error signal suitable for the multimodal nature of demonstrations. The controller learned in the virtual environment is transferred to a physical robot (a Rethink Robotics Baxter). An off-the-shelf vision component is used to substitute for geometric knowledge available in the simulation and an inverse kinematics module is used to allow the Baxter to enact the trajectory. Our experimental studies validate the three contributions of the paper: (1) the controller learned from virtual demonstrations can be used to successfully perform the manipulation tasks on a physical robot, (2) the LSTM+MDN architectural choice outperforms other choices, such as the use of feedforward networks and mean-squared error based training signals and (3) allowing imperfect demonstrations in the training set also allows the controller to learn how to correct its manipulation mistakes. 

Title: Learning Models for Shared Control of Human-Machine Systems with Unknown Dynamics
Abstract:  We present a novel approach to shared control of human-machine systems. Our method assumes no a priori knowledge of the system dynamics. Instead, we learn both the dynamics and information about the user's interaction from observation through the use of the Koopman operator. Using the learned model, we define an optimization problem to compute the optimal policy for a given task, and compare the user input to the optimal input. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach with a user study. We also analyze the individual nature of the learned models by comparing the effectiveness of our approach when the demonstration data comes from a user's own interactions, from the interactions of a group of users and from a domain expert. Positive results include statistically significant improvements on task metrics when comparing a user-only control paradigm with our shared control paradigm. Surprising results include findings that suggest that individualizing the model based on a user's own data does not effect the ability to learn a useful dynamic system. We explore this tension as it relates to developing human-in-the-loop systems further in the discussion. 

Title: Non-Matrix Tactile Sensors: How Can Be Exploited Their Local Connectivity For Predicting Grasp Stability?
Abstract:  Tactile sensors supply useful information during the interaction with an object that can be used for assessing the stability of a grasp. Most of the previous works on this topic processed tactile readings as signals by calculating hand-picked features. Some of them have processed these readings as images calculating characteristics on matrix-like sensors. In this work, we explore how non-matrix sensors (sensors with taxels not arranged exactly in a matrix) can be processed as tactile images as well. In addition, we prove that they can be used for predicting grasp stability by training a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) with them. We captured over 2500 real three-fingered grasps on 41 everyday objects to train a CNN that exploited the local connectivity inherent on the non-matrix tactile sensors, achieving 94.2% F1-score on predicting stability. 

Title: Robust Lane Marking Detection Algorithm Using Drivable Area Segmentation and Extended SLT
Abstract:  In this paper, a robust lane detection algorithm is proposed, where the vertical road profile of the road is estimated using dynamic programming from the v-disparity map and, based on the estimated profile, the road area is segmented. Since the lane markings are on the road area and any feature point above the ground will be a noise source for the lane detection, a mask is created for the road area to remove some of the noise for lane detection. The estimated mask is multiplied by the lane feature map in a bird's eye view (BEV). The lane feature points are extracted by using an extended version of symmetrical local threshold (SLT), which not only considers dark light dark transition (DLD) of the lane markings, like (SLT), but also considers parallelism on the lane marking borders. The segmentation then uses only the feature points that are on the road area. A maximum of two linear lane markings are detected using an efficient 1D Hough transform. Then, the detected linear lane markings are used to create a region of interest (ROI) for parabolic lane detection. Finally, based on the estimated region of interest, parabolic lane models are fitted using robust fitting. Due to the robust lane feature extraction and road area segmentation, the proposed algorithm robustly detects lane markings and achieves lane marking detection with an accuracy of 91% when tested on a sequence from the KITTI dataset. 

Title: Continuous Control for Automated Lane Change Behavior Based on Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient Algorithm
Abstract:  Lane change is a challenging task which requires delicate actions to ensure safety and comfort. Some recent studies have attempted to solve the lane-change control problem with Reinforcement Learning (RL), yet the action is confined to discrete action space. To overcome this limitation, we formulate the lane change behavior with continuous action in a model-free dynamic driving environment based on Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG). The reward function, which is critical for learning the optimal policy, is defined by control values, position deviation status, and maneuvering time to provide the RL agent informative signals. The RL agent is trained from scratch without resorting to any prior knowledge of the environment and vehicle dynamics since they are not easy to obtain. Seven models under different hyperparameter settings are compared. A video showing the learning progress of the driving behavior is available. It demonstrates the RL vehicle agent initially runs out of road boundary frequently, but eventually has managed to smoothly and stably change to the target lane with a success rate of 100% under diverse driving situations in simulation. 

Title: Probabilistic Learning of Torque Controllers from Kinematic and Force Constraints
Abstract:  When learning skills from demonstrations, one is often required to think in advance about the appropriate task representation (usually in either operational or configuration space). We here propose a probabilistic approach for simultaneously learning and synthesizing torque control commands which take into account task space, joint space and force constraints. We treat the problem by considering different torque controllers acting on the robot, whose relevance is learned probabilistically from demonstrations. This information is used to combine the controllers by exploiting the properties of Gaussian distributions, generating new torque commands that satisfy the important features of the task. We validate the approach in two experimental scenarios using 7-DoF torquecontrolled manipulators, with tasks that require the consideration of different controllers to be properly executed. 

Title: Pixel-Attentive Policy Gradient for Multi-Fingered Grasping in Cluttered Scenes
Abstract:  Recent advances in on-policy reinforcement learning (RL) methods enabled learning agents in virtual environments to master complex tasks with high-dimensional and continuous observation and action spaces. However, leveraging this family of algorithms in multi-fingered robotic grasping remains a challenge due to large sim-to-real fidelity gaps and the high sample complexity of on-policy RL algorithms. This work aims to bridge these gaps by first reinforcement-learning a multi-fingered robotic grasping policy in simulation that operates in the pixel space of the input: a single depth image. Using a mapping from pixel space to Cartesian space according to the depth map, this method transfers to the real world with high fidelity and introduces a novel attention mechanism that substantially improves grasp success rate in cluttered environments. Finally, the direct-generative nature of this method allows learning of multi-fingered grasps that have flexible end-effector positions, orientations and rotations, as well as all degrees of freedom of the hand. 

Title: Fundamental Entropic Laws and $\mathcal{L}_p$ Limitations of Feedback Systems: Implications for Machine-Learning-in-the-Loop Control
Abstract:  In this paper, we study the fundamental performance limitations for generic feedback systems in which both the controller and the plant may be arbitrarily causal while the disturbance can be with any distributions. In particular, we obtain fundamental $\mathcal{L}_p$ bounds based on the entropic laws that are inherent in any feedback systems. We also examine the implications of the generic bounds for machine-learning-in-the-loop control; in other words, fundamental limits in general exist to what machine learning elements in feedback loops can achieve. 

Title: Deep Learning for 3D Point Clouds: A Survey
Abstract:  Point cloud learning has lately attracted increasing attention due to its wide applications in many areas, such as computer vision, autonomous driving, and robotics. As a dominating technique in AI, deep learning has been successfully used to solve various 2D vision problems. However, deep learning on point clouds is still in its infancy due to the unique challenges faced by the processing of point clouds with deep neural networks. Recently, deep learning on point clouds has become even thriving, with numerous methods being proposed to address different problems in this area. To stimulate future research, this paper presents a comprehensive review of recent progress in deep learning methods for point clouds. It covers three major tasks, including 3D shape classification, 3D object detection and tracking, and 3D point cloud segmentation. It also presents comparative results on several publicly available datasets, together with insightful observations and inspiring future research directions. 

Title: Visual-Inertial Telepresence for Aerial Manipulation
Abstract:  This paper presents a novel telepresence system for enhancing aerial manipulation capabilities. It involves not only a haptic device, but also a virtual reality that provides a 3D visual feedback to a remotely-located teleoperator in real-time. We achieve this by utilizing onboard visual and inertial sensors, an object tracking algorithm and a pre-generated object database. As the virtual reality has to closely match the real remote scene, we propose an extension of a marker tracking algorithm with visual-inertial odometry. Both indoor and outdoor experiments show benefits of our proposed system in achieving advanced aerial manipulation tasks, namely grasping, placing, force exertion and peg-in-hole insertion. 

Title: DensePhysNet: Learning Dense Physical Object Representations via Multi-step Dynamic Interactions
Abstract:  We study the problem of learning physical object representations for robot manipulation. Understanding object physics is critical for successful object manipulation, but also challenging because physical object properties can rarely be inferred from the object's static appearance. In this paper, we propose DensePhysNet, a system that actively executes a sequence of dynamic interactions (e.g., sliding and colliding), and uses a deep predictive model over its visual observations to learn dense, pixel-wise representations that reflect the physical properties of observed objects. Our experiments in both simulation and real settings demonstrate that the learned representations carry rich physical information, and can directly be used to decode physical object properties such as friction and mass. The use of dense representation enables DensePhysNet to generalize well to novel scenes with more objects than in training. With knowledge of object physics, the learned representation also leads to more accurate and efficient manipulation in downstream tasks than the state-of-the-art. 

Title: A Minimum Relative Entropy Controller for Undiscounted Markov Decision Processes
Abstract:  Adaptive control problems are notoriously difficult to solve even in the presence of plant-specific controllers. One way to by-pass the intractable computation of the optimal policy is to restate the adaptive control as the minimization of the relative entropy of a controller that ignores the true plant dynamics from an informed controller. The solution is given by the Bayesian control rule-a set of equations characterizing a stochastic adaptive controller for the class of possible plant dynamics. Here, the Bayesian control rule is applied to derive BCR-MDP, a controller to solve undiscounted Markov decision processes with finite state and action spaces and unknown dynamics. In particular, we derive a non-parametric conjugate prior distribution over the policy space that encapsulates the agent's whole relevant history and we present a Gibbs sampler to draw random policies from this distribution. Preliminary results show that BCR-MDP successfully avoids sub-optimal limit cycles due to its built-in mechanism to balance exploration versus exploitation. 

Title: Pillar-based Object Detection for Autonomous Driving
Abstract:  We present a simple and flexible object detection framework optimized for autonomous driving. Building on the observation that point clouds in this application are extremely sparse, we propose a practical pillar-based approach to fix the imbalance issue caused by anchors. In particular, our algorithm incorporates a cylindrical projection into multi-view feature learning, predicts bounding box parameters per pillar rather than per point or per anchor, and includes an aligned pillar-to-point projection module to improve the final prediction. Our anchor-free approach avoids hyperparameter search associated with past methods, simplifying 3D object detection while significantly improving upon state-of-the-art. 

Title: Pop-up SLAM: Semantic Monocular Plane SLAM for Low-texture Environments
Abstract:  Existing simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithms are not robust in challenging low-texture environments because there are only few salient features. The resulting sparse or semi-dense map also conveys little information for motion planning. Though some work utilize plane or scene layout for dense map regularization, they require decent state estimation from other sources. In this paper, we propose real-time monocular plane SLAM to demonstrate that scene understanding could improve both state estimation and dense mapping especially in low-texture environments. The plane measurements come from a pop-up 3D plane model applied to each single image. We also combine planes with point based SLAM to improve robustness. On a public TUM dataset, our algorithm generates a dense semantic 3D model with pixel depth error of 6.2 cm while existing SLAM algorithms fail. On a 60 m long dataset with loops, our method creates a much better 3D model with state estimation error of 0.67%. 

Title: Fast Model Identification via Physics Engines for Data-Efficient Policy Search
Abstract:  This paper presents a method for identifying mechanical parameters of robots or objects, such as their mass and friction coefficients. Key features are the use of off-the-shelf physics engines and the adaptation of a Bayesian optimization technique towards minimizing the number of real-world experiments needed for model-based reinforcement learning. The proposed framework reproduces in a physics engine experiments performed on a real robot and optimizes the model's mechanical parameters so as to match real-world trajectories. The optimized model is then used for learning a policy in simulation, before real-world deployment. It is well understood, however, that it is hard to exactly reproduce real trajectories in simulation. Moreover, a near-optimal policy can be frequently found with an imperfect model. Therefore, this work proposes a strategy for identifying a model that is just good enough to approximate the value of a locally optimal policy with a certain confidence, instead of wasting effort on identifying the most accurate model. Evaluations, performed both in simulation and on a real robotic manipulation task, indicate that the proposed strategy results in an overall time-efficient, integrated model identification and learning solution, which significantly improves the data-efficiency of existing policy search algorithms. 

Title: Non-monotonic Logical Reasoning Guiding Deep Learning for Explainable Visual Question Answering
Abstract:  State of the art algorithms for many pattern recognition problems rely on deep network models. Training these models requires a large labeled dataset and considerable computational resources. Also, it is difficult to understand the working of these learned models, limiting their use in some critical applications. Towards addressing these limitations, our architecture draws inspiration from research in cognitive systems, and integrates the principles of commonsense logical reasoning, inductive learning, and deep learning. In the context of answering explanatory questions about scenes and the underlying classification problems, the architecture uses deep networks for extracting features from images and for generating answers to queries. Between these deep networks, it embeds components for non-monotonic logical reasoning with incomplete commonsense domain knowledge, and for decision tree induction. It also incrementally learns and reasons with previously unknown constraints governing the domain's states. We evaluated the architecture in the context of datasets of simulated and real-world images, and a simulated robot computing, executing, and providing explanatory descriptions of plans. Experimental results indicate that in comparison with an ``end to end'' architecture of deep networks, our architecture provides better accuracy on classification problems when the training dataset is small, comparable accuracy with larger datasets, and more accurate answers to explanatory questions. Furthermore, incremental acquisition of previously unknown constraints improves the ability to answer explanatory questions, and extending non-monotonic logical reasoning to support planning and diagnostics improves the reliability and efficiency of computing and executing plans on a simulated robot. 

Title: Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning for Quadruped Locomotion
Abstract:  Legged locomotion is a challenging task for learning algorithms, especially when the task requires a diverse set of primitive behaviors. To solve these problems, we introduce a hierarchical framework to automatically decompose complex locomotion tasks. A high-level policy issues commands in a latent space and also selects for how long the low-level policy will execute the latent command. Concurrently, the low-level policy uses the latent command and only the robot's on-board sensors to control the robot's actuators. Our approach allows the high-level policy to run at a lower frequency than the low-level one. We test our framework on a path-following task for a dynamic quadruped robot and we show that steering behaviors automatically emerge in the latent command space as low-level skills are needed for this task. We then show efficient adaptation of the trained policy to a different task by transfer of the trained low-level policy. Finally, we validate the policies on a real quadruped robot. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first application of end-to-end hierarchical learning to a real robotic locomotion task. 

Title: The Cyborg Astrobiologist: Porting from a wearable computer to the Astrobiology Phone-cam
Abstract:  We have used a simple camera phone to significantly improve an `exploration system' for astrobiology and geology. This camera phone will make it much easier to develop and test computer-vision algorithms for future planetary exploration. We envision that the `Astrobiology Phone-cam' exploration system can be fruitfully used in other problem domains as well. 

Title: Baidu Apollo Auto-Calibration System - An Industry-Level Data-Driven and Learning based Vehicle Longitude Dynamic Calibrating Algorithm
Abstract:  For any autonomous driving vehicle, control module determines its road performance and safety, i.e. its precision and stability should stay within a carefully-designed range. Nonetheless, control algorithms require vehicle dynamics (such as longitudinal dynamics) as inputs, which, unfortunately, are obscure to calibrate in real time. As a result, to achieve reasonable performance, most, if not all, research-oriented autonomous vehicles do manual calibrations in a one-by-one fashion. Since manual calibration is not sustainable once entering into mass production stage for industrial purposes, we here introduce a machine-learning based auto-calibration system for autonomous driving vehicles. In this paper, we will show how we build a data-driven longitudinal calibration procedure using machine learning techniques. We first generated offline calibration tables from human driving data. The offline table serves as an initial guess for later uses and it only needs twenty-minutes data collection and process. We then used an online-learning algorithm to appropriately update the initial table (the offline table) based on real-time performance analysis. This longitudinal auto-calibration system has been deployed to more than one hundred Baidu Apollo self-driving vehicles (including hybrid family vehicles and electronic delivery-only vehicles) since April 2018. By August 27, 2018, it had been tested for more than two thousands hours, ten thousands kilometers (6,213 miles) and yet proven to be effective. 

Title: TruPercept: Trust Modelling for Autonomous Vehicle Cooperative Perception from Synthetic Data
Abstract:  Inter-vehicle communication for autonomous vehicles (AVs) stands to provide significant benefits in terms of perception robustness. We propose a novel approach for AVs to communicate perceptual observations, tempered by trust modelling of peers providing reports. Based on the accuracy of reported object detections as verified locally, communicated messages can be fused to augment perception performance beyond line of sight and at great distance from the ego vehicle. Also presented is a new synthetic dataset which can be used to test cooperative perception. The TruPercept dataset includes unreliable and malicious behaviour scenarios to experiment with some challenges cooperative perception introduces. The TruPercept runtime and evaluation framework allows modular component replacement to facilitate ablation studies as well as the creation of new trust scenarios we are able to show. 

Title: gradSLAM: Dense SLAM meets Automatic Differentiation
Abstract:  The question of "representation" is central in the context of dense simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Newer learning-based approaches have the potential to leverage data or task performance to directly inform the choice of representation. However, learning representations for SLAM has been an open question, because traditional SLAM systems are not end-to-end differentiable. In this work, we present gradSLAM, a differentiable computational graph take on SLAM. Leveraging the automatic differentiation capabilities of computational graphs, gradSLAM enables the design of SLAM systems that allow for gradient-based learning across each of their components, or the system as a whole. This is achieved by creating differentiable alternatives for each non-differentiable component in a typical dense SLAM system. Specifically, we demonstrate how to design differentiable trust-region optimizers, surface measurement and fusion schemes, as well as differentiate over rays, without sacrificing performance. This amalgamation of dense SLAM with computational graphs enables us to backprop all the way from 3D maps to 2D pixels, opening up new possibilities in gradient-based learning for SLAM. TL;DR: We leverage the power of automatic differentiation frameworks to make dense SLAM differentiable. 

Title: Mutual Reinforcement Learning
Abstract:  Recently, collaborative robots have begun to train humans to achieve complex tasks, and the mutual information exchange between them can lead to successful robot-human collaborations. In this paper we demonstrate the application and effectiveness of a new approach called mutual reinforcement learning (MRL), where both humans and autonomous agents act as reinforcement learners in a skill transfer scenario over continuous communication and feedback. An autonomous agent initially acts as an instructor who can teach a novice human participant complex skills using the MRL strategy. While teaching skills in a physical (block-building) ($n=34$) or simulated (Tetris) environment ($n=31$), the expert tries to identify appropriate reward channels preferred by each individual and adapts itself accordingly using an exploration-exploitation strategy. These reward channel preferences can identify important behaviors of the human participants, because they may well exercise the same behaviors in similar situations later. In this way, skill transfer takes place between an expert system and a novice human operator. We divided the subject population into three groups and observed the skill transfer phenomenon, analyzing it with Simpson"s psychometric model. 5-point Likert scales were also used to identify the cognitive models of the human participants. We obtained a shared cognitive model which not only improves human cognition but enhances the robot's cognitive strategy to understand the mental model of its human partners while building a successful robot-human collaborative framework. 

Title: Learning to Generate Unambiguous Spatial Referring Expressions for Real-World Environments
Abstract:  Referring to objects in a natural and unambiguous manner is crucial for effective human-robot interaction. Previous research on learning-based referring expressions has focused primarily on comprehension tasks, while generating referring expressions is still mostly limited to rule-based methods. In this work, we propose a two-stage approach that relies on deep learning for estimating spatial relations to describe an object naturally and unambiguously with a referring expression. We compare our method to the state of the art algorithm in ambiguous environments (e.g., environments that include very similar objects with similar relationships). We show that our method generates referring expressions that people find to be more accurate ($\sim$30% better) and would prefer to use ($\sim$32% more often). 

Title: Hallucinative Topological Memory for Zero-Shot Visual Planning
Abstract:  In visual planning (VP), an agent learns to plan goal-directed behavior from observations of a dynamical system obtained offline, e.g., images obtained from self-supervised robot interaction. Most previous works on VP approached the problem by planning in a learned latent space, resulting in low-quality visual plans, and difficult training algorithms. Here, instead, we propose a simple VP method that plans directly in image space and displays competitive performance. We build on the semi-parametric topological memory (SPTM) method: image samples are treated as nodes in a graph, the graph connectivity is learned from image sequence data, and planning can be performed using conventional graph search methods. We propose two modifications on SPTM. First, we train an energy-based graph connectivity function using contrastive predictive coding that admits stable training. Second, to allow zero-shot planning in new domains, we learn a conditional VAE model that generates images given a context of the domain, and use these hallucinated samples for building the connectivity graph and planning. We show that this simple approach significantly outperform the state-of-the-art VP methods, in terms of both plan interpretability and success rate when using the plan to guide a trajectory-following controller. Interestingly, our method can pick up non-trivial visual properties of objects, such as their geometry, and account for it in the plans. 

Title: End-to-end Learning of Multi-sensor 3D Tracking by Detection
Abstract:  In this paper we propose a novel approach to tracking by detection that can exploit both cameras as well as LIDAR data to produce very accurate 3D trajectories. Towards this goal, we formulate the problem as a linear program that can be solved exactly, and learn convolutional networks for detection as well as matching in an end-to-end manner. We evaluate our model in the challenging KITTI dataset and show very competitive results. 

Title: Semantic sensor fusion: from camera to sparse lidar information
Abstract:  To navigate through urban roads, an automated vehicle must be able to perceive and recognize objects in a three-dimensional environment. A high-level contextual understanding of the surroundings is necessary to plan and execute accurate driving maneuvers. This paper presents an approach to fuse different sensory information, Light Detection and Ranging (lidar) scans and camera images. The output of a convolutional neural network (CNN) is used as classifier to obtain the labels of the environment. The transference of semantic information between the labelled image and the lidar point cloud is performed in four steps: initially, we use heuristic methods to associate probabilities to all the semantic classes contained in the labelled images. Then, the lidar points are corrected to compensate for the vehicle's motion given the difference between the timestamps of each lidar scan and camera image. In a third step, we calculate the pixel coordinate for the corresponding camera image. In the last step we perform the transfer of semantic information from the heuristic probability images to the lidar frame, while removing the lidar information that is not visible to the camera. We tested our approach in the Usyd Dataset \cite{usyd_dataset}, obtaining qualitative and quantitative results that demonstrate the validity of our probabilistic sensory fusion approach. 

Title: Leveraging Vision and Kinematics Data to Improve Realism of Biomechanic Soft-tissue Simulation for Robotic Surgery
Abstract:  Purpose Surgical simulations play an increasingly important role in surgeon education and developing algorithms that enable robots to perform surgical subtasks. To model anatomy, Finite Element Method (FEM) simulations have been held as the gold standard for calculating accurate soft-tissue deformation. Unfortunately, their accuracy is highly dependent on the simulation parameters, which can be difficult to obtain. Methods In this work, we investigate how live data acquired during any robotic endoscopic surgical procedure may be used to correct for inaccurate FEM simulation results. Since FEMs are calculated from initial parameters and cannot directly incorporate observations, we propose to add a correction factor that accounts for the discrepancy between simulation and observations. We train a network to predict this correction factor. Results To evaluate our method, we use an open-source da Vinci Surgical System to probe a soft-tissue phantom and replay the interaction in simulation. We train the network to correct for the difference between the predicted mesh position and the measured point cloud. This results in 15-30% improvement in the mean distance, demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach across a large range of simulation parameters. Conclusion We show a first step towards a framework that synergistically combines the benefits of model-based simulation and real-time observations. It corrects discrepancies between simulation and the scene that results from inaccurate modeling parameters. This can provide a more accurate simulation environment for surgeons and better data with which to train algorithms. 

Title: Simple Kinematic Feedback Enhances Autonomous Learning in Bio-Inspired Tendon-Driven Systems
Abstract:  Error feedback is known to improve performance by correcting control signals in response to perturbations. Here we show how adding simple error feedback can also accelerate and robustify autonomous learning in a tendon-driven robot. We implemented two versions of the General-to-Particular (G2P) autonomous learning algorithm to produce multiple movement tasks using a tendon-driven leg with two joints and three tendons: one with and one without kinematic feedback. As expected, feedback improved performance in simulation and hardware. However, we see these improvements even in the presence of sensory delays of up to 100 ms and when experiencing substantial contact collisions. Importantly, feedback accelerates learning and enhances G2P's continual refinement of the initial inverse map by providing the system with more relevant data to train on. This allows the system to perform well even after only 60 seconds of initial motor babbling. 

Title: Satellite Image-based Localization via Learned Embeddings
Abstract:  We propose a vision-based method that localizes a ground vehicle using publicly available satellite imagery as the only prior knowledge of the environment. Our approach takes as input a sequence of ground-level images acquired by the vehicle as it navigates, and outputs an estimate of the vehicle's pose relative to a georeferenced satellite image. We overcome the significant viewpoint and appearance variations between the images through a neural multi-view model that learns location-discriminative embeddings in which ground-level images are matched with their corresponding satellite view of the scene. We use this learned function as an observation model in a filtering framework to maintain a distribution over the vehicle's pose. We evaluate our method on different benchmark datasets and demonstrate its ability localize ground-level images in environments novel relative to training, despite the challenges of significant viewpoint and appearance variations. 

Title: An End-to-End Learning Approach for Trajectory Prediction in Pedestrian Zones
Abstract:  This paper aims to explore the problem of trajectory prediction in heterogeneous pedestrian zones, where social dynamics representation is a big challenge. Proposed is an end-to-end learning framework for prediction accuracy improvement based on an attention mechanism to learn social interaction from multi-factor inputs. 

Title: Single Storage Semi-Global Matching for Real Time Depth Processing
Abstract:  Depth-map is the key computation in computer vision and robotics. One of the most popular approach is via computation of disparity-map of images obtained from Stereo Camera. Semi Global Matching (SGM) method is a popular choice for good accuracy with reasonable computation time. To use such compute-intensive algorithms for real-time applications such as for autonomous aerial vehicles, blind Aid, etc. acceleration using GPU, FPGA is necessary. In this paper, we show the design and implementation of a stereo-vision system, which is based on FPGA-implementation of More Global Matching(MGM). MGM is a variant of SGM. We use 4 paths but store a single cumulative cost value for a corresponding pixel. Our stereo-vision prototype uses Zedboard containing an ARM-based Zynq-SoC, ZED-stereo-camera / ELP stereo-camera / Intel RealSense D435i, and VGA for visualization. The power consumption attributed to the custom FPGA-based acceleration of disparity map computation required for depth-map is just 0.72 watt. The update rate of the disparity map is realistic 10.5 fps. 

Title: Global Pose Estimation with an Attention-based Recurrent Network
Abstract:  The ability for an agent to localize itself within an environment is crucial for many real-world applications. For unknown environments, Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) enables incremental and concurrent building of and localizing within a map. We present a new, differentiable architecture, Neural Graph Optimizer, progressing towards a complete neural network solution for SLAM by designing a system composed of a local pose estimation model, a novel pose selection module, and a novel graph optimization process. The entire architecture is trained in an end-to-end fashion, enabling the network to automatically learn domain-specific features relevant to the visual odometry and avoid the involved process of feature engineering. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our system on a simulated 2D maze and the 3D ViZ-Doom environment. 

Title: EPOS: Estimating 6D Pose of Objects with Symmetries
Abstract:  We present a new method for estimating the 6D pose of rigid objects with available 3D models from a single RGB input image. The method is applicable to a broad range of objects, including challenging ones with global or partial symmetries. An object is represented by compact surface fragments which allow handling symmetries in a systematic manner. Correspondences between densely sampled pixels and the fragments are predicted using an encoder-decoder network. At each pixel, the network predicts: (i) the probability of each object's presence, (ii) the probability of the fragments given the object's presence, and (iii) the precise 3D location on each fragment. A data-dependent number of corresponding 3D locations is selected per pixel, and poses of possibly multiple object instances are estimated using a robust and efficient variant of the PnP-RANSAC algorithm. In the BOP Challenge 2019, the method outperforms all RGB and most RGB-D and D methods on the T-LESS and LM-O datasets. On the YCB-V dataset, it is superior to all competitors, with a large margin over the second-best RGB method. Source code is at: cmp.felk.cvut.cz/epos. 

Title: Trajectory Forecasts in Unknown Environments Conditioned on Grid-Based Plans
Abstract:  In this paper, we address the problem of forecasting agent trajectories in unknown environments, conditioned on their past motion and scene structure. Trajectory forecasting is a challenging problem due to the large variation in scene structure, and the multi-modal nature of the distribution of future trajectories. Unlike prior approaches that directly learn one-to-many mappings from observed context, to multiple future trajectories, we propose to condition trajectory forecasts on \textit{plans} sampled from a grid based policy learned using maximum entropy inverse reinforcement learning policy (MaxEnt IRL). We reformulate MaxEnt IRL to allow the policy to jointly infer plausible agent goals and paths to those goals on a coarse 2-D grid defined over an unknown scene. We propose an attention based trajectory generator that generates continuous valued future trajectories conditioned on state sequences sampled from the MaxEnt policy. Quantitative and qualitative evaluation on the publicly available Stanford drone dataset (SDD) shows that our model generates trajectories that are (1) diverse, representing the multi-modal predictive distribution, and (2) precise, conforming to the underlying scene structure over long prediction horizons, achieving state of the art results on the TrajNet benchmark split of SDD. 

Title: Synthetic and Real Inputs for Tool Segmentation in Robotic Surgery
Abstract:  Semantic tool segmentation in surgical videos is important for surgical scene understanding and computer-assisted interventions as well as for the development of robotic automation. The problem is challenging because different illumination conditions, bleeding, smoke and occlusions can reduce algorithm robustness. At present labelled data for training deep learning models is still lacking for semantic surgical instrument segmentation and in this paper we show that it may be possible to use robot kinematic data coupled with laparoscopic images to alleviate the labelling problem. We propose a new deep learning based model for parallel processing of both laparoscopic and simulation images for robust segmentation of surgical tools. Due to the lack of laparoscopic frames annotated with both segmentation ground truth and kinematic information a new custom dataset was generated using the da Vinci Research Kit (dVRK) and is made available. 

Title: Multimodal Dataset of Human-Robot Hugging Interaction
Abstract:  A hug is a tight embrace and an expression of warmth, sympathy and camaraderie. Despite the fact that a hug often only takes a few seconds, it is filled with details and nuances and is a highly complex process of coordination between two agents. For human-robot collaborative tasks, it is necessary for humans to develop trust and see the robot as a partner to perform a given task together. Datasets representing agent-agent interaction are scarce and, if available, of limited quality. To study the underlying phenomena and variations in a hug between a person and a robot, we deployed Baxter humanoid robot and wearable sensors on persons to record 353 episodes of hugging activity. 33 people were given minimal instructions to hug the humanoid robot for as natural hugging interaction as possible. In the paper, we present our methodology and analysis of the collected dataset. The use of this dataset is to implement machine learning methods for the humanoid robot to learn to anticipate and react to the movements of a person approaching for a hug. In this regard, we show the significance of the dataset by highlighting certain features in our dataset. 

Title: NeoNav: Improving the Generalization of Visual Navigation via Generating Next Expected Observations
Abstract:  We propose improving the cross-target and cross-scene generalization of visual navigation through learning an agent that is guided by conceiving the next observations it expects to see. This is achieved by learning a variational Bayesian model, called NeoNav, which generates the next expected observations (NEO) conditioned on the current observations of the agent and the target view. Our generative model is learned through optimizing a variational objective encompassing two key designs. First, the latent distribution is conditioned on current observations and the target view, leading to a model-based, target-driven navigation. Second, the latent space is modeled with a Mixture of Gaussians conditioned on the current observation and the next best action. Our use of mixture-of-posteriors prior effectively alleviates the issue of over-regularized latent space, thus significantly boosting the model generalization for new targets and in novel scenes. Moreover, the NEO generation models the forward dynamics of agent-environment interaction, which improves the quality of approximate inference and hence benefits data efficiency. We have conducted extensive evaluations on both real-world and synthetic benchmarks, and show that our model consistently outperforms the state-of-the-art models in terms of success rate, data efficiency, and generalization. 

Title: Simulation of optical flow and fuzzy based obstacle avoidance system for mobile robots
Abstract:  Honey bees use optical flow to avoid obstacles effectively. In this research work similar methodology was tested on a simulated mobile robot. Simulation framework was based on VRML and Simulink in a 3D world. Optical flow vectors were calculated from a video scene captured by a virtual camera which was used as inputs to a fuzzy logic controller. Fuzzy logic controller decided the locomotion of the robot. Different fuzzy logic rules were evaluated. The robot was able to navigate through complex static and dynamic environments effectively, avoiding obstacles on its path. 

